London — Whenever I was encouraged by my elders to pick up a book, I was often told, “Read so as to know the world.” And it is true; books have invited me into different countries, states of mind, social conditions and historical epochs; they have offered me a place at the most unusual gatherings.
伦敦——无论何时，长辈在鼓励我拿起书本时常会对我说，“通过阅读才能了解这个世界”。确实，书籍带我领略了不同的国家、心态、社会环境和历史时期，它们让我有机会参与最不寻常的集会。
I have had access to private rooms, overheard exquisite conversations and been able to observe subtle changes in another person’s inner life. Books have shown me horror and beauty. All this is true.
我可以进入私人的房间，听到精彩的交谈，能够观察另一个人内心的微妙变化。书籍向我展示了恐惧和美好。这些都是真实的。
But the most magical moments in reading occur not when I encounter something unknown but when I happen upon myself, when I read a sentence that perfectly describes something I have known or felt all along. I am reminded then that I am really no different from anyone else.
但阅读时，最神奇的时刻不是遇到我不知道的知识，而是在我遇见自己，读到一个句子精确地描述了我一直以来的认知或感受的时候。它们让我知道，我其实和其他人并无不同。
Perhaps that is the secret motive behind every library: to stumble upon ourselves in the lives and lands and tongues of others. And the more foreign the setting, the more poignant the event seems. For a strange thing occurs then: A distance widens and then it is crossed.
或许这就是所有图书馆背后的秘密动机：在别人的生活、国度和语言中邂逅我们自己。并且似乎背景越陌生，这种经历就越深切。因为之后会发生一件奇怪的事情：距离拉大，然后跨越了界线。
How many times, and in ways that did not seem to require my consent, have I suddenly and in my own bed found myself to be Russian or French or Japanese? How many times have I been a peasant or an aristocrat? How many times have I been a woman? I have been free and without liberty, gay, disabled, old, loved and loathed.
有多少次，我躺在自己的床上，却突然发现自己是俄罗斯人、法国人或日本人？有多少次，我成了农民或贵族？又有多少次，我变成了女性？我遇到过自由和不自由的自己，也邂逅过身为同性恋、残疾人和老人的自己，受人爱戴和遭人憎恨的自己。这些情景的出现似乎并不需要我的同意。
All great art allows us this: a glimpse across the limits of our self. These occurrences aren’t merely amusing or disorientating or interesting experiments in “virtual reality.” They are moments of genuine expansion. They are at the heart of our humanity. Our future depends on them. We couldn’t have gotten here without them.
所有伟大的艺术作品都能够让我们跨越重重限制，看到自己的影子。这些时刻不只是令人发笑、使人迷惘或有趣的“虚拟现实”实验。它们是真正的延伸时刻。它们是我们人性的核心。我们的未来取决于它们。如果没有它们，我们不可能取得现在的成就。
Just as a river leads to the sea — and from Jane Austen’s vernacular social order to William Faulkner’s American South, from Naguib Mahfouz’s Cairo to Tayeb Salih’s village in Sudan — the particular in great literature has always flowed to the universal.
就像河流会汇入大海一样，从简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)的民间社会秩序到威廉·福克纳(William Faulkner)笔下的美国南方，从纳吉布·马哈福兹(Naguib Mahfouz)的开罗到塔耶卜·萨利赫(Tayeb Salih)的苏丹村庄，伟大的文学作品中的细节永远具有普遍性。
That is perhaps what the author of the iconic novel “The House of Hunger,” the Zimbabwean writer Dambudzo Marechera, meant when he said, “If you are a writer for a specific nation or a specific race,” then he had no use for you. What he was resisting was narrow provincialism, the sort of identitarianism that has invaded our academies and public discourse, and which sees individual life as, first and foremost, representative of a racial, religious or cultural category.
这或许就是标志性的小说《饥饿屋》(The House of Hunger)的作者、津巴布韦作家达姆布佐·马雷切拉(Dambudzo Marechera)所说的，“如果你是为某个特定的国家或种族服务的作家，”那么他对你就毫无用处。他反对的是狭隘的地方主义，是那种已经侵入我们的学院和公共话语的身份主义。这种思想认为，个体的生活首先代表着某个种族、宗教或文化类别。
Mr. Marechera was instead promoting a courageous universalism that is at the heart of how literature works and, I believe, central to our resistance to the narrow visions of right-wing populists such as Donald Trump, Marine Le Pen, Geert Wilders and Nigel Farage.
马雷切拉推崇的是一种勇敢的普世主义，这是文学作品发挥作用的核心。我认为，它对我们反抗唐纳德·特朗普、马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)、海尔特·维尔德斯(Geert Wilders)和奈吉尔·法拉奇(Nigel Farage)等右翼民粹主义者的狭隘见解也极为重要。
Nothing we read can import new or foreign feelings that we don’t, in one form or another, already possess. “Every reader,” as Marcel Proust writes in “Time Regained,” “is actually the reader of himself.” Books can’t install unknown feelings or passions into us. What they can do is develop our emotional, psychological and intellectual life, and, by doing so, show us how and to what extent we are connected.
我们读到的任何作品，都不可能提供某种我们尚不具备的、新颖或陌生的感受，只不过形式不同而已。正如马塞尔·普鲁斯特(Marcel Proust)在《追忆似水年华》中所写的，“每个读者只能读到已然存在于他内心的东西。”书籍无法向我们灌输我们不知道的感受或热情。它们能做的，只是发展我们的情感、心理和学习生活，并通过这么做来向我们展示，我们心灵相通的方式和程度。
This is why literature is the greatest argument for the universalist instinct, and this is why literature is intransigent about its liberty. It refuses to be enrolled, regardless of how noble or urgent the project. It cannot be governed or dictated to. It is by instinct interested in conflicting empathies, in men and women who are running into their own hearts, in doubt and contradictions. Which is why, without even intending to, and like a moon to the night, it disrupts the totalitarian narrative. What it reveals about our human nature is central to the conversation today.
这就是为什么文学是普世主义本能的最有力依据，也是文学坚定捍卫其自由的原因。它拒绝被收编，不管涉及的项目多么高尚，多么紧迫。它也不会受人支使。它本能地对相冲突的同理心，对走进彼此心里的男女，对怀疑和矛盾感兴趣。这正是它甚至会像月亮之于夜晚，在无意中扰乱极权主义叙事的原因。它揭示的人性，对今天的对话至关重要。
Doubt and contradictions are not tolerated in Mr. Trump’s life; but, of course, they are there — as they are in every life — no matter how deeply concealed. You can see it in the tragic air that never leaves him, in the rhythm of his steps, the lines sculpted into his face, the rigidity of his neck as he signs those wretched executive orders. Yes, doubt must be there because he is not only intolerant of complexity; he fears it.
特朗普的生活里容不下怀疑和矛盾，但它们肯定是存在的，就像它们存在于每个人的生活中一样，不管它们被藏得有多深。在从未离开过他的悲剧气息，他的步伐节奏，他脸上深深的皱纹，他在签署那些糟糕的行政命令时僵直的脖子中，都能看到它们。是的，肯定存在怀疑，因为他不仅不能容忍错综复杂的情况，他还害怕它们。
What false vigor then must demonizing and excluding millions of innocent people based on their race and religion inspire. And just like the censor who underestimates the common reader, Mr. Trump too has a limited interpretation of himself and therefore of humanity. And just like the censor, his actions will damage the fiber of his society because, in the long run, the more lasting damage falls on the one doing the excluding more than those being excluded.
那么，根据种族和宗教妖魔化并排斥数百万无辜民众，势必会激起非常虚幻的活力。就像低估普通读者的审查者一样，特朗普对自己的了解有限，因而对人性的了解也有颇为有限。而且和审查者一样，他的行为会破坏他所在社会的组织结构，因为从长远来看，排斥者所遭受的更持久的破坏，要多于被排斥者。