People who diligently use sunscreen every day can slow or even prevent for a time the development of wrinkles and sagging skin, a new study found. Although dermatologists have long told people to use sunscreen to blunt the effects of aging, this is the first research to show an actual effect on the appearance of skin, researchers said.
一项新研究发现，坚持每天使用防晒霜可以在一定程度上减缓甚至防止皱纹和皮肤松弛的形成。皮肤科医生一直都在建议人们使用防晒霜以减缓衰老效应，不过研究人员称，这是第一次在研究中显示出对皮肤外表造成的实际效果。
The study involved 900 white people ages 25 to 55 in Australia, where intense sun exposure is a fact of life. Most had fair skin, and nearly all burned in the sun. Most were using sunscreen at least some of the time, and two-thirds wore hats in the sun.
该研究在澳大利亚招募了900名年龄在25岁到55岁之间的白种人作为研究对象，强烈的日照是那里生活的常态。他们大多皮肤白皙，几乎都曾被太阳晒伤过。多数人至少偶尔会使用防晒霜，三分之二的人在阳光下会戴帽子。
But researchers wanted to find out what would happen to skin if people tried to use a broad-spectrum sunscreen all the time over four and a half years. Half of the study participants were told to continue their usual practices, and the other half to slather on sunscreen daily.
然而研究人员想知道的是，如果连续四年半持续使用广谱防晒霜，会是怎样的结果。他们让一半的参与者保持和往常一样的习惯，另一半开始每天抹防晒霜。
The result, the researchers reported on Monday in The Annals of Internal Medicine, is that those assigned to use sunscreen every day had noticeably more resilient and smoother skin than those assigned to continue their usual practices.
研究的成果本周一发表在了《内科医学年鉴》(The Annals of Internal Medicine)上，报告称，相比那些继续平日习惯的人，每天使用防晒霜的人皮肤明显更有弹性，更光滑。
The study also included nearly 900 people who were randomly assigned to take beta carotene, a nutritional supplement, or a placebo to see if the supplement prevented skin aging. It did not.
研究还对将近900人进行随机分组，一部分人服用营养补充剂B-胡萝卜素，另一部分人服用安慰剂，观察补充剂是否有防止皮肤衰老的作用。结果是不能。
The sunscreen element of the study impressed other researchers. Dr. David R. Bickers, a dermatology professor at Columbia University who was not involved in the research, said it “makes it clear that extensive, consistent use of sunscreen can alter a pattern of what would be an inevitable progression of photo-aging.”
研究中的防晒霜这一部分令其他研究人员颇为称道。未参加研究的哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)皮肤医学教授戴维·R·比克尔斯(David R. Bickers)说，研究“表明大面积持续使用防晒霜可以改变光衰老的进程，而这一进程本是不可避免的”。
Dr. Barbara A. Gilchrest, a dermatology professor at the Boston University School of Medicine and the editor of The Journal of Investigative Dermatology, said she, too, found the study convincing.
波士顿大学医学院(Boston University School of Medicine)皮肤医学教授、《皮肤病学研究期刊》(The Journal of Investigative Dermatology)编辑芭芭拉·A·基尔克雷斯特(Barbara A. Gilchrest)也觉得这项研究是有说服力的。
Dr. Gilchrest, who was not associated with the study, noted that its subjects were not inveterate tanners but rather people who tried to protect their skin.
同样和本次研究无关的基尔克雷斯特指出，研究对象并非积习已久的暴晒一族，而是尝试去保护皮肤的人。
“They were not taking the worst sun offenders and taking them out of the sun,” Dr. Gilchrest said. “Everyone had pretty darn good sun-protection habits to begin with.”
“他们没有选那些毫不顾忌太阳的人，然后让他们避开阳光，”基尔克雷斯特说，“每个人本来就已经有相当不错的防晒习惯。”
No one had done such a study before because the very idea is daunting, dermatologists said. Hundreds of healthy people had to agree to follow their assigned regimens for years.
皮肤病学家说，此前没有人做过这种研究是因为这个想法本身就让人望而却步。几百名健康的人要连续几年按照要求去安排生活。
The sunscreen used by those assigned to daily applications had a sun protection factor, or SPF, of 15, which filters 92 percent of the sun’s rays. Someone who would normally burn in 10 minutes would burn in 150 minutes with an SPF 15. Those assigned to use sunscreen even had their sunscreen bottles weighed to make sure they were using it.
被指定每天采取防晒措施的人，使用的是防晒因子，也就是SPF值为15的防晒霜，可以过滤92%的阳光射线。一个人如果在10分钟内会被晒伤，那么使用SPF 15的防晒霜后会延长到150分钟。那些被指定使用防晒霜的人甚至要拿防晒霜瓶子出来称重，以确保他们都在使用。
“Getting compliance over a sustained period of time is no mean feat,” Dr. Bickers said. “To me, it is remarkable that they were able to get the degree of compliance that they did.”
“让人们在一段持续的时间内遵照要求行事绝对是种成就，”比克尔斯说，“在我看来，他们可以得到如此程度的配合是很了不起的。”
The sunscreen study was paid for by the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia. No sunscreen makers contributed.
防晒霜研究的经费来自澳大利亚国家健康和医学研究委员会(National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia)。没有防晒霜制造商参与。
Researchers studied only white people in Nambour, about 650 miles north of Sydney. Participants agreed to let researchers make silicone casts of their skin at the start and the end of the study to assess how their skin had aged.
这项研究只涉及生活在悉尼以北650英里（约合1000公里）处的南博尔的白人。参与者需要让研究人员在研究开始时和结束后为他们的皮肤制作硅胶模型，以评估他们的皮肤变化。
The study’s principal investigator, Adele C. Green, a senior scientist at the Queensland Institute of Medical Research, and her colleagues there and at the University of Queensland had previously shown that this method provides the same sort of information as a skin biopsy. With a biopsy, dermatologists look at elastin, the elastic tissue, which degrades with aging, contributing to wrinkles and sagging skin.
该项目的首席研究员、昆士兰医学研究院(Queensland Institute of Medical Research)的资深科学家阿黛尔·C·格林(Adele C. Green)和她在研究院以及昆士兰大学(University of Queensland)的同事此前就已经发现，用这种方法可以得到跟皮肤活检一样的信息。在活检中，皮肤病学家要观察的是弹性蛋白，这种弹性组织是会随着衰老而退化的，成为皱纹和皮肤松弛的原因之一。
The study does not answer the question of whether people older than 55 would also have more youthful skin if they used sunscreen, Dr. Green cautioned. After 55, she said, aging’s effects on skin start to predominate. And the effects of ultraviolet light on skin are cumulative.
格林提醒人们注意，55岁以上的人在使用防晒霜后是否能有更年轻的皮肤，本项研究并没有给出回答。她说55岁以后皮肤的衰老效应开始起主导作用。而且紫外线照射对皮肤起到的是一种累积的效果。
It is not known how much sunscreen can help if its use is started later in life. But Dr. Green would advise it anyway, she said, because it can protect against skin cancer.
比较晚开始使用防晒霜的人能有什么样的效果，也不得而知。但格林还是建议使用，因为可以预防皮肤癌。