Most parents have experienced that feeling of fear when a young child wanders off at the playground or disappears during a trip to the supermarket. New technology, in the form of voice watches and miniature sensing devices, is aimed at thwarting such distress by keeping track of children who are too young to carry a smartphone.
大多数家长都经历过孩子在游乐场走丢或在超市里不见踪影时的恐惧。新出现的语音通话手表和微型传感装置技术希望免除你这样的苦恼，你可以用它和因年龄太小而无法携带智能手机的孩子保持联系。
The new devices use GPS, Wi-Fi and other location-tracking technology and can be linked to apps on a parent’s phone. One device, a watch coming from Filip Technologies later this year, tracks a child’s location and lets him or her get voice calls from up to five people authorized by their parents. (Children lift the watch to their ear or mouth when communicating.)
这种新设备使用了GPS、Wi-Fi和其他位置跟踪技术，而且可以和家长手机上的应用绑定。其中一款是菲利普科技公司(Filip Technologies)将在今年晚些时候推出的手表，它可以追踪孩子的位置，让孩子和最多五个得到家长授权的人进行语音通话（在通话的时候，孩子们要把手表举到耳朵或者嘴边）。
The watch also has a red panic button that children can push if, for example, they suddenly become separated from their parents in a crowd. Then the watch starts dialing each of the authorized people until one answers. AT&T will be the network provider for the watch; its price has not yet been announced.
手表上有一个红色紧急按钮，如果孩子在人群中突然与父母走散，就可以按这个按钮，然后手表就会给每个获得授权的人拨打电话，直到有人接听。这款手表的网络提供商是AT&T。售价尚未公布。
Sandra L. Calvert, a professor of psychology and the director of the Children’s Digital Media Center at Georgetown University, views the watches and related products as extensions of the way parents now use smartphones to keep track of older children.
心理学教授桑德拉·L·卡尔弗特(Sandra L. Calvert)是乔治敦大学(Georgetown University)的儿童数字媒体中心(Children’s Digital Media Center)主任，她认为这种手表及相关产品是目前父母用智能手机跟年龄较大的儿童联系做法的延伸。
“From a child’s perspective, a parent is like an anchor,” she said. These devices allow the child to move farther and farther away, yet the parent knows where the child is. “If a child gets lost in a store and can push a little button, their parents can find them,” she said. “It helps them to know they are in a range that seems to be safe.”
“从孩子的角度来看，父母就像是船锚，”她说。有了这些设备，孩子就算走得更远一些，家长也仍能知道他们的位置。“如果孩子在商店里走丢了，有这个小按钮可以按，他们的家长就能找到他们，”她说，“这有助于让他们了解自己处在比较安全的范围内。”
But the technology offered by the watches and similar products could be a mixed blessing, said Lisa Damour, a psychologist who focuses on parenting and directs the Center for Research on Girls at Laurel School in Shaker Heights, Ohio, and contributes to Motherlode blog of The New York Times.
但研究亲子关系的心理学家丽莎·达莫(Lisa Damour)说，手表与同类产品所提供的这种技术，效果可能好坏参半。达莫是俄亥俄夏克海茨桂冠学校女童研究中心(Center for Research on Girls at Laurel School)的主任，也是《纽约时报》Motherlode博客的撰稿人。
“I can understand how a parent might want to know if their child is having a problem, but I don’t think it’s necessarily helpful for children to always be able to turn to their parents when they are struggling,” she said. “We want children to develop problem-solving skills and the capacity to manage stress” as they practice drawing on their own resources, or those of teachers, friends and others around them.
“父母可能希望知道孩子是否遇到了麻烦，这我能理解；但是，如果孩子遇到麻烦时总是可以去找父母，我觉得这不一定有好处。”她说，我们希望孩子练习利用自身资源，或者老师、朋友和周围其他人的资源，在这个过程中“培养解决问题、管理压力的技能”。
The panic button might have an unintended effect that’s not in the best interest of the child, she said. “It may reduce the parents’ anxiety to give their child a panic button, but I can readily imagine that it increases the child’s anxiety,” she said. “It sends a strong message that the child is at real risk of danger. This goes against what we know statistically.”
她说，紧急按钮可能会产生一些意想不到的效果，对孩子来说未必很好。“给孩子配备一个紧急按钮可能会减轻父母的焦虑，但我很容易能想象到，它会增加孩子的焦虑，”她说，“它传达了一个强烈的信息，就是孩子真的处在危险之中。这与我们所知的统计事实正好相反。”
In reality, children are now safer from abduction by strangers than they’ve been in decades, said Lisa M. Jones, a research associate professor of psychology at the University of New Hampshire’s Crimes Against Children Research Center. “Abductions in the traditional sense of someone taken by someone else they don’t know, with the intention of keeping or harming the child — that’s quite rare,” she said. “The vast majority of children are victimized by people close to them.”
事实上，跟过去几十年相比，如今孩子们被陌生人绑架的可能性已经减小了，丽莎·M·琼斯(Lisa M. Jones)说，她是新罕布什尔大学涉童罪行研究中心(University of New Hampshire’s Crimes Against Children Research Center)的心理学研究副教授。“从传统意义上说，绑架是指被不认识的人掳走，其目的是把孩子据为己有或伤害他们——这种情况如今相当罕见，”她说，“绝大多数受害儿童都是被他们熟悉的人绑架的。”
But even though such abductions are rare, she said, “obviously we are terrified by them.”
她说，尽管类似的绑架事件不常见，但“我们显然害怕发生这种事情”。
Jonathan Peachey, chief executive of Filip Technologies, said the watch might well increase a child’s anxiety, “but I would question whether that’s a bad thing.” With the watch, children have a sense that they can always talk to their parents in threatening situations. “That’s a conversation, and a very positive one for parents to have with their child,” he said.
菲利普公司首席执行官乔纳森·皮奇(Jonathan Peachey)说，这款表也许会增加孩子的焦虑，“但我觉得这不见得是件坏事”。带上这款手表，孩子会觉得自己身处险境时总能和父母通上话。“父母和孩子进行这种对话有非常积极的意义，”他说。
Another new tracking device, the tiny Trax, also pairs with a smartphone app to allow parents to find their children, particularly very young ones, said Tobias Stenberg, a co-founder of Wonder Technology Solutions, a company in Stockholm that makes the device.
还有一款新型追踪设备是小巧的Trax，由位于斯德哥尔摩的奇迹技术解决方案公司(Wonder Technology Solutions)生产，公司联合创始人托比亚斯·斯滕贝里(Tobias Stenberg)说，它也是和一款智能手机应用配套使用的，能让父母找到孩子，尤其是年幼的孩子。
The tracker is meant for those worrisome moments when parents trying to keep an eye on a child playing in the garden, for example, suddenly discover that he or she isn’t there. “Your first reaction is a bit of panic, but if you look at your phone, you can see, ‘Oh, she’s returned to her room,’ ” Mr. Stenberg said.
这款追踪设备是供父母在担心的时候用的，比如，父母想留意在花园玩的孩子，但突然发现孩子不见了。斯滕贝里说，“你的第一反应是有点惊慌，但如果看一下手机，你就会发现，‘哦，她回自己房间了。’”
The Trax, to be available later this month, costs $249 and includes a subscription for two years’ use in more than 30 countries, including the United States. After that, the company will charge a small monthly fee. Parents can draw boundaries on the screens of their smartphones, creating an electronic fence within which their child can roam. But if the child crosses the digital fence, the tracker alerts the parents, Mr. Stenberg said. And if the satellite signal is lost inside a building, for example, the Trax uses motion and direction sensors to determine the child’s position. (The device can also keep track of dogs, he said.)
将于本月晚些时候面市的Trax定价249美元，附赠包括美国在内30多个国家的两年免费使用权。两年后，公司每月会收取少量费用。父母可以在智能手机的屏幕上划定界限，树起一道电子栅栏，孩子只能在栅栏以内活动。斯滕贝里说，但如果孩子越过这道数字栅栏，追踪器就会向父母报警。而且，如果卫星信号消失了，比如在大楼里，Trax会用运动和方向传感器确定孩子的位置。（他说，这款设备还可以用来追踪狗。）
For parents who opt for smartphones even for young children, many wireless services, like AT&T’s FamilyMap, offer programs that track the phones of family members, sending a text or email to parents telling them, for example, when their child’s phone arrives home after school.
至于那些选择让小孩子携带智能手机的父母，有许多像AT&T的FamilyMap这样的家人手机追踪服务。比如，放学后孩子带着手机回到家时，这些服务会通过短信或电子邮件通知父母。
Lynn Schofield Clark, an associate professor at the University of Denver and author of “The Parent App,” said parents who equip their young children with tracking devices still have to try to balance the parental instinct to protect their offspring with the need to nurture their sense of independence and responsibility.
丹佛大学副教授、《家长应用》《The Parent App》一书的作者林恩·斯科菲尔德·克拉克(Lynn Schofield Clark)说，那些给孩子佩戴了追踪设备的父母，还是需要尽量在保护孩子的家长本能和培养孩子独立感、责任感的需求之间保持平衡。
Children can’t be protected by gadgets alone, she said — they also have to learn the basics of being a responsible family member: “We still have to remind them again and again that they have to let us know where they are and not wander off.”
她说，仅凭这些设备保护不了孩子，他们还必须学会做一个负责任的家庭成员的基本行事方式：“我们依然需要反复提醒他们，让我们知道他们在哪，让他们不要到处乱跑。”