It's been a tough week for breathing in Beijing and other parts of northern China.
一周来，北京和中国北方其他地区的空气质量糟糕至极。
Blue skies were finally visible in the capital on Thursday after the region suffered from seven straight days of intense pollution, sending consumers out in droves to buy pollution masks.
北京在连续7天重污染之后终于在周四见到蓝天。这种糟糕的空气迫使大批人去购买防霾口罩。
Although Thursday's weather brought a collective sigh of relief from the masses, if past records are any indication, the pollution is bound to return. So one Beijing doctor is asking: what actually makes a good face mask?
虽然周四的天气让人松了一口气，但如果过去的情况可供参考的话，那么污染肯定会卷土重来。所以北京一名医生问了这样一个问题：到底什么样的口罩才算好？
Not every mask is equally effective, says Dr. Richard Saint Cyr, a family physician with Beijing United Family Healthcare.
北京和睦家医疗(Beijing United Family Healthcare)的全科医生圣西睿智(Richard Saint Cyr)表示，并非所有的口罩都一样有效。
Wearing simple cotton masks or those that don't fully seal against the face could actually be dangerous because it leads to a false sense of security and even more time outdoors, he says.
他说，佩戴简单的棉质口罩或是不能完全贴合面部的口罩实际上可能是危险的，因为这会带来错误的安全感，使人在户外停留更长的时间。
'It disturbs me that people are walking around thinking wearing these things is safe, but they almost certainly are not,' says Dr. Saint Cyr.
圣西睿智称，我感到不安的是，人们以为戴着这些东西就安全了，但几乎肯定并非如此。
Of course, there are plenty of people in Beijing who wear no mask at all. President Xi Jinping strolled through the popular Nanluoguxiang neighborhood Tuesday, breathing on a day that the air-quality index reached more than 500. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency says an index of above 300 is 'extremely rare' in the U.S. and typically occurs during events such as forest fires.
当然，北京也有很多人根本不戴口罩。中国国家主席习近平就在周二空气污染指数超过500那天现身著名的北京南锣鼓巷。美国国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)表示，该指数超过300的情况在美国极少出现，一般都是在发生森林大火这类事件时才会这样。
But Dr. Saint Cyr suspects that the lack of scientific data on the most effective types of masks has made many people wary of buying any at all. The doctor, who also keeps a blog called My Health Beijing, has started a project to test masks currently on the market, using a crowdfunding approach to pay for testing as many as 200 masks, which will be evaluated by a California company.
但圣西睿智猜测，很多人不买口罩是因为缺乏各类口罩防霾效果的科学数据。这位医生开了个名为“我的健康北京”(My Health Beijing)的博客。他发起了一个测试当前市场上口罩效果的项目，用众筹的方式来支付测试200个口罩所需的费用，这些口罩将由加利福尼亚一家公司来测试。
For those looking for protection right away, Dr. Saint Cyr offers these tips for mask shopping:
而对于那些急于寻求有效防护的人，圣西睿智给出了一些选购口罩的建议：
The most important element is how a mask fits against the face. Air gaps that allow particulate matter in render the mask basically useless, he says. Some of the popular Chinese-brand masks sold in 7-Eleven stores around Beijing are no good, he says. One, Ludun, touts its 99% efficiency, he says. But within the mask, the filter is just a tiny square inside a cotton mask. The vast majority of the mask is cotton, with lots of leakage. 'It just doesn't fit well.' What's most worrisome, he says, is 'people are walking around thinking they're protected.' One good test is whether eyeglass-wearers find their glasses steamed up. If so, the masks aren't air-tight.
首先要考虑的因素是口罩和脸部的贴合度。如果口罩和脸部之间存在缝隙使得悬浮颗粒进入，那么口罩就变得形同虚设。圣西睿智说，中国的7-11便利店内热销的一些口罩并不好用，就拿绿盾牌口罩来说，这款自称功效高达99%的口罩实际上只是在其棉质口罩中放入了一个极小的滤芯。市面上很多口罩都是棉质的，佩戴时会形成很大的缝隙，并不能有效贴合人脸。更令人担忧的是，很多人戴上这种口罩之后就大胆放心地到处走动。如果你佩戴眼镜，一个检查贴合度的好办法就是看镜片上是否会有雾气，如果有，就说明口罩贴合度不佳。
The mask's material -- its ability to filter out the smallest particulate matter -- also is important. Cotton masks or surgical masks aren't effective, Dr. Saint Cyr says. The U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health offers mask certification based on the amount of particulate matter filtered out. An N95 rating, for example, means a mask filters out 95% of airborne particulates.
其次，口罩的材质决定着口罩过滤悬浮颗粒的能力。美国国家职业安全与健康研究所(National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health)根据每款口罩过滤掉的颗粒总量对口罩进行评定。比如说N95级别的口罩就能过滤掉空气中95%的悬浮颗粒。
Good ventilation matters, especially for those who might want to exercise outside in the mask. Some masks rest away from the face, creating a comfortable breathing space, while others feel too suffocating for heavy exertion.
口罩能否良好透气，对于那些想在户外活动的人来说尤为重要。一些口罩在佩戴时能够和脸部隔开，进而确保使用者可以顺畅呼吸，而有些口罩会迫使人的呼吸力度加大，让人感到憋闷。
Style, too, is a consideration. Some masks, like Respro, make the wearers look like Darth Vadar, while others, like Totobobo, resemble some sort of alien with white gills. Some blogs suggest placing a second mask over the powerful one, topping off the look with a mask that may be ineffective but aesthetically pleasing. After all, if people feel ugly wearing their masks, they may be less likely to wear them.
口罩的款式也是选购时的一个考虑因素。Respro让人看着像《星球大战》里的黑武士，而Totobobo则令人看起来像是某种长着白鳃的外星人。一些博客建议人们在强效口罩的外面再套一个不那么有效、但更好看些的口罩。毕竟如果人们觉得口罩戴着很丑的话，可能就不会戴了。
The Shanghai Consumer Rights Protection Commission in 2013 tested 17 disposable pollution masks, and rated them (in Chinese) on its website. Dr. Saint Cyr translated the results and published the findings on his blog, calling it 'a useful treasure of evidence-based data.' The top five disposable masks, he reported, are all made by 3M.
上海市消费者权益保护委员会曾在2013年测试了17款需定期更换的防护口罩，并在其网站对这些口罩进行了评级。圣西睿智翻译了评级结果，并发布在了他的博客上，将之称为“宝贵的实证数据”。这其中，美国的3M公司(3M Co.)包揽了最佳口罩的前五名。
His new study aims to widen the scope of the Shanghai test, evaluating both pricey reusable masks like Vogmask, Respro and Totobobo as well as cheaper versions by 3M. Cost, Dr. Saint Cyr says, is one factor that doesn't seem to matter much. In fact, he says he uses the disposable five yuan (820cent) 3M masks himself. 'They're probably better than anything on the market.'
圣西睿智将以上述研究为基础再进行研究，并拓宽产品测试范围，对Vogmask、Respro和Totobobo等高价口罩以及3M的低价口罩都进行测试。他说，价格对口罩的质量似乎没有很大的影响。实际上他自己用的是人民币5块钱一个的3M口罩，并评价说它可能是市面上最好用的口罩了。
Dr. Saint Cyr estimates his study will be completed by April or May.
圣西睿智预计他的研究将在4月或5月份完成。