Shortly before Men’s Health Day on Oct. 28, reports of a new study of sex in China, presented in jokey and sympathetic language, raced through the Internet.
在10月28日“世界男性健康日”之前不久，一项在中国开展的性学新研究的报告公之于众。它用玩笑和同情的语气写成，在互联网上快速传播。
The topic was guaranteed to attract as much attention in China as anywhere else: A sexual revolution has been underway in the country since at least the early 1990s with the easing of severe Maoist-era repression.
这个主题在中国吸引的注意力不比在其他地方少：至少自20世纪90年代初毛泽东时代的严重压制放松以来，中国就在进行一场性革命。
Chinese men, overworked and overstressed, were suffering high levels of impotence, said the study, ‘‘China Ideal Sex Blue Book.’’ Only a little over half of the thousands interviewed were achieving full erections, which it described as being ‘‘like a cucumber.’’ (It described its opposite as ‘‘like tofu.’’)
这份名为《性福中国蓝皮书》的报告显示，由于过度劳累和压力过大，中国男人出现了高度阳痿，在数以千计的受访者中，只有略超过半数的人能实现充分勃起。文中将充分勃起形容为“黄瓜”。（相反的状况则为“豆腐”。）
For Dr. Jiang Hui, a urologist at the Peking University Third Hospital and an author of the study, which was conducted by the China Sexology Association and two Chinese health publications, and supported by Pfizer, the manufacturer of the erectile dysfunction drug Viagra, it was more evidence that Chinese men need help — preferably from prescription drugs like Viagra or Cialis.
这项研究由中国性学会和两家中国保健刊物发起，受到了出品勃起功能障碍药物万艾可(Viagra)的辉瑞公司提供的支持。北京大学第三医院泌尿科医生姜辉是报告的作者之一，在他看来，这项研究提供了更多的证据，表明中国男人需要帮助——最好是使用处方药，比如万艾可和希爱力(Cialis)。
In a telephone interview, Dr. Jiang declined to say exactly how Pfizer supported the survey or why the report recommended the company’s products as a first line of treatment.In scientific terms, the survey was ‘‘of very limited significance’’ for methodological reasons, Everett Yuehong Zhang, a professor of East Asia studies at Princeton University, said in an email. But it was significant in another way.
在接受电话采访时，姜辉拒绝透露辉瑞公司究竟为这项研究提供了怎样的支持，以及为什么报告中建议把辉瑞的产品作为首选治疗方式。普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)东亚研究领域的教授张跃宏在电子邮件中表示，用科学术语来说，这份调查由于方法学上的原因，“显著性非常有限”。但从另一个层面上来看，它很有意义。
‘‘It can be referenced to as a sign of the sustaining research interest in this topic,’’ said Mr. Zhang, whose book ‘‘The Impotence Epidemic: Men’s Medicine and Sexual Desire in Contemporary China’’ is to be published next year.
“这可以当作一个标志，表明大家对该主题的研究一直很感兴趣，” 张跃宏说。他的书作《阳痿的流行：当代中国的男科医学和性欲》(The Impotence Epidemic: Men’s Medicine and Sexual Desire in Contemporary China)将于明年出版。
To Mr. Zhang, the ‘‘epidemic’’ is mostly about the increased visibility of the problem, as Chinese men become more willing to seek treatment, reflecting the changing nature of desire in China today for men and women.
在张跃宏看来，这种“流行”的主要意义是，随着中国男人变得更愿意寻医问药，性无能问题的可见度提高了。这反映了在当今中国的男性和女性中，欲望的性质正在发生变化。
In that sense, he said, departing from the crisis tone of the ‘‘China Ideal Sex Blue Book,’’ what is being termed an ‘‘impotence epidemic’’ could actually be a ‘‘positive’’ thing.
他说，从这个层面上讲，不同于《性福中国蓝皮书》那充满危机感的语气，“阳痿的流行”实际上可能具有“积极”意义。
‘‘Through anthropological fieldwork I conducted in men’s clinics, I discovered that we are not sure that more Chinese men are suffering from impotence than before,’’ he said.
“在男科诊所进行的人类学实地调查中，我发现，我们不能肯定，和以前相比，现在患上阳痿的中国男性人数更多，”他说。
‘‘Instead, we are sure that more impotent men are encouraged to break silence and reach out to doctors in order to cure impotence,’’ he said. ‘‘This tendency reflects the overall orientation today of the Chinese population — men as well as women — to satisfy sexual desire.’’
“我们确信的反而是，有更多的阳痿男性被鼓励打破沉默，向医生寻求治疗，”他说。“这种趋势反映了如今中国人——无论男女——想要满足性欲的总体倾向。”