KABUL, Afghanistan — An armed mob that included relatives of a young woman who had eloped with her lover stormed a police station holding the couple in eastern Afghanistan over the weekend, then dragged the lovers off and killed them, officials and witnesses said.
阿富汗喀布尔——上周末在阿富汗东部，武装暴徒冲击了扣押一对私奔恋人的警察局，将两人拖出来后杀死了他们，暴徒中还包括这名私奔的年轻女子的亲戚，官员和目击者说道。
The mob wounded three police officers, one of them seriously, the officials and witnesses said Sunday and Monday in providing accounts of the couple’s violent deaths, often called honor killings.
周日和周一，官员和目击者对两人的暴力死亡进行了描述，说暴民打伤了三名警察，其中一人重伤，这种情况通常被称为“名誉杀人”。
The woman, Fatiha, 18, was described as having been married against her will and eloping instead with a young man, Hedayatullah, believed to be in his early 20s, from a neighboring village in Wama District of Nuristan province. But on Saturday the police caught and arrested the couple on suspicion of adultery.
这名女子是18岁的法蒂哈(Fatiha)，据说已经违背其意愿地结了婚，这名年轻男子是海达亚图拉(Hedayatullah)，据信20出头，两人从位于努里斯坦省瓦马区邻近的村庄私奔。但是在周六，警方因通奸嫌疑逮捕了这对恋人。
Within hours an armed mob formed at the police station, led by Fatiha’s husband and his family, but also including her brothers and cousins, the officials and witnesses said.
官员和目击者说，几个小时后，法蒂哈的丈夫及其家人带领的一群武装暴徒抵达了警察局，这群人中有她的兄弟和表亲。
The authorities said there were only 30 police officers at the station facing a mob of 250 to 300 heavily armed men. “If police had fired bullets at the people, a massacre could have happened,” said Hafiz Abdul Qayoom, governor of Nuristan, claiming the police had no option but to surrender the couple to the mob, especially after three officers had suffered gunshot wounds from the angry crowd.
当局说，警察局只有30名警察，面对的是250至300名全副武装的暴徒。“如果警察向人们开枪，那就可能发生大屠杀，”努里斯坦省省长哈菲兹·阿卜杜勒·卡荣(Hafiz Abdul Qayoom)说，警方别无选择，只好将两人交给暴徒，特别是愤怒的人群开枪打伤三名警官之后。
Salam Khan, 22, a witness from Fatiha’s village, Sar-i-Pul, said he saw what had happened to the couple after the police surrendered them. “Some of Fatiha’s relatives, her cousins, were beating her with their fists and saying, ‘Why did you do this?’ Then her older brother got angry and shot her with a hunting rifle and her younger brother shot her with an AK-47. I don’t know how many bullets they fired,” Khan said, speaking by telephone from the remote village.
22岁的目击者萨拉姆·汗(Salam Khan)来自法蒂哈的村庄萨里普(Sar-i-Pul)，他说自己看到了警察投降后两人的遭遇。 “法蒂哈的一些亲戚，她的表亲，用拳头打她，说：‘你为什么这样做？’然后她哥哥发火了，用猎枪朝她开枪，而她弟弟用AK-47朝她开枪。我不知道他们发射了多少子弹。”汗在偏远的村庄接受电话采访时说。
The man described by officials and witnesses as the woman’s husband, who was not identified, shot and killed Hedayatullah, with whom she had eloped, according to Khan.
根据汗的说法，被官员和目击者描述为法蒂哈丈夫的男子，开枪杀死了与她私奔的海达亚图拉。丈夫的名字没有披露。
As of Monday no one had been charged or arrested in the fatal shootings of the couple or the shootings of the police officers.
截至周一，还没有人因为这对恋人遭受致命枪击或者警察被击中而遭到指控或逮捕。