KABUL, Afghanistan — President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan on Thursday ordered the release of dozens of prisoners accused of having American blood on their hands, saying there was not enough evidence to hold them and intensifying his showdown with Obama administration officials after weeks of warnings that he risked losing American troop support.
阿富汗喀布尔——周四，阿富汗总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)下令释放数十名被控手上沾有美国人鲜血的囚犯，称没有足够的证据扣押这些犯人，此举激化了他和奥巴马政府官员之间针锋相对的态势。此前几周，美国政府一直警告称，卡尔扎伊有丧失美军支持的风险。
The move threatened to plunge relations to a new state of crisis even as a broader, long-term security agreement between the two countries has been held up for weeks.
一项范围更广泛的美阿长期安全协议已被搁置了数周，释囚之举恰在此时发生，可能会让两国关系陷入新的危机。
An American official said Thursday night that the American ambassador in Kabul, James B. Cunningham, reported in an internal cable that he did not think Mr. Karzai would agree to sign the accord before Afghanistan’s elections in April. News of the cable was first reported online by The Washington Post.
一名美国官员于周四晚表示，美国驻阿富汗大使詹姆斯·B·坎宁安(James B. Cunningham)在一封内部电报中报称，他认为卡尔扎伊不会同意在今年四月的阿富汗大选前签署协议。《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)率先在网上报道了关于这封电报的消息。
The Obama administration wants the agreement to be signed soon so that the United States and its NATO allies, who are pursuing a similar agreement, will have time to make plans for a post-2014 force.
奥巴马政府希望迅速签定协议，以便给美国及其北约(NATO)盟友留出时间，为2014年后的军力部署制定计划。北约正在寻求和阿富汗签署类似的协议。
American officials have said that the prisoners to be released are dangerous Taliban militants and that freeing them without trial would violate an agreement on detainees reached last year.
美国官员已表示，被释囚犯是危险的塔利班(Taliban)武装分子，如果未经审判就释放他们，将违反美阿去年达成的一项在押人员协议。 That detention authority deal was considered a prerequisite to the security pact, known as the bilateral security agreement, which would allow for a continued American troop presence and aid past 2014.
羁押授权协议被认为是安全条约的先决条件之一，该条约名为双边安全协议，将允许美军在2014年后继续驻扎在阿富汗，给阿方提供援助。
Still, just a week after some American officials insisted that such a prisoner release would prove that Mr. Karzai could not be trusted to honor a security deal, the initial American response on Thursday was cautious. Officials were critical of the release, but also careful to say that the move would not harm the security deal and that they were still trying to get a full accounting for the decision.
仅在一周之前，一些美国官员还坚称，这样释放囚犯将证明卡尔扎伊不具备切实履行安全协议的信用，尽管如此，美方在周四的第一反应却相当审慎。官员们谴责了释囚举动，但也没有忘记表示，此举不会损害安全协议，他们仍在设法获取有关这一决定的完整情况。
Mr. Karzai has been increasingly successful in pushing his demands past the point of American resistance in recent years, including the issue of detention. That has led some Afghan officials familiar with his thinking to say that the Afghan president has concluded that the United States was willing to bend as far as he wanted it to in order to keep troops here.
近些年，卡尔扎伊一直在越来越成功地推进自己的要求，使之跨越美方的抵抗线，羁押问题也在其中。一些熟悉卡尔扎伊思维的阿富汗官员由此表示，这位阿富汗总统已经认定，为了在阿富汗驻留军队，美国愿意亦步亦趋地按照他的要求做出让步。
Now, his government appears to be reviving an old dispute. Last year, American officials initially resisted Mr. Karzai’s demands to turn over authority over detainees to the Afghans, saying they were worried that Afghan officials would be too quick to release dangerous militants who would then return to the battlefield. The Americans said Mr. Karzai’s promise that it would not happen that way cleared the path for the security agreement.
现在，旧日的一场纠纷似乎已被卡尔扎伊政府重新点燃。去年，美国官员一开始拒绝了卡尔扎伊把在押人员的羁押权移交阿富汗的请求，说他们担忧阿富汗官员会太过迅速地释放危险的武装分子，后者会在日后重返战场。美方说，卡尔扎伊曾承诺这样的事情不会发生，这才为安全协议扫清了道路。
On Thursday, Afghan officials said that in ordering the release of 72 detainees, they were following legal procedure because neither American nor Afghan security officials could produce evidence that the men had been involved in killing troops.
周四，阿富汗官员表示，他们下令释放72名在押人员的行动是遵照法律程序进行的，原因是美国安全官员和阿富汗安全官员都拿不出证据证实这些人与杀害美军的行动有关。
“We have the right to release the men,” said Aimal Faizi, Mr. Karzai’s spokesman. “The Americans know very well they do not have anything that is solid against these detainees.” He characterized some of the evidence as being nothing more than fingerprints on guns, noting that almost everyone in Afghanistan owned a gun.
“我们有权释放这些人，”卡尔扎伊的发言人艾马尔·法伊兹(Aimal Faizi)说，“美国很清楚，他们没有针对这些在押人员的确凿证据。”他称其中的部分证据不过是枪上的指纹，并指出阿富汗几乎人人有枪。
The prisoners are being held near Bagram Air Base at what was the main American prison in Afghanistan. Mr. Faizi said that the exact timing of their release would be up to prison officials and the three-member Afghan detention commission that recommended the move.
这些囚犯现在被关在巴格拉姆空军基地(Bagram Air Base)附近，那里是美国设在阿富汗的主要监狱。法伊兹说，他们获释的具体时间将由监狱官员及建议释囚的阿富汗三人拘押委员会决定。
Jen Psaki, the spokeswoman for the State Department, criticized the release, saying that it undermined justice under Afghan law and that the detainees being freed were “dangerous criminals against whom there is strong evidence linking them to terror-related crimes, including the use of improvised explosive devices, the largest killer of Afghan civilians.”
国务院女发言人珍·帕莎其(Jen Psaki)对释囚决定表示了谴责，称此举损害了阿富汗法律规定的公正，并表示即将获释的那些人是“危险的罪犯，强有力的证据把他们与涉及恐怖的罪行联系在了一起，其中包括使用简易爆炸装置，简易爆炸装置是阿富汗平民的头号杀手”。
Since Afghanistan took over detention authority in March, the Afghan commission has set free 560 prisoners and recommended that 114 be tried on accusations of insurgent activities. That left 88 other detainees whose cases had to be ruled on.
自阿富汗于3月接管羁押权之后，前述阿富汗委员会已经释放了560名囚犯，并建议以从事叛乱活动的罪名审判114名罪犯。这一来，还有88名在押人员的案件需等待裁决。
In late December, the commission decided that there was not enough evidence and ruled that all 88 suspects should be freed. But the Americans and the National Directorate of Security, Afghanistan’s main intelligence agency, which is supposed to make recommendations to the prisoner review commission, both objected and were given more time to come up with evidence against the prisoners.
12月末，该委员会得出了证据不足的结论，并裁决88名嫌疑人应全部被释放。但美国和阿富汗国家安全局(National Directorate of Security)均表示反对，由此得到了更多的时间来提出指控那些囚犯的证据。国家安全局是阿富汗的主要情报机构，有责任向该委员会提供建议。
Mr. Faizi said Thursday that the directorate, after reviewing the evidence it could collect, ended up recommending in a meeting with Mr. Karzai that only 16 of the 88 be prosecuted. Mr. Karzai then ordered the remaining 72 freed.
法伊兹周四表示，审查了搜集来的全部证据之后，国家安全局在同卡尔扎伊举行的一次会议上建议只起诉88人中的16人。于是，卡尔扎伊下令释放剩下的72人。
Other Afghan officials said that was not the case. The security directorate had recommended that many of the 88 be held for trial, but was overruled by Mr. Karzai, said one senior Afghan security official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid angering the president. Mr. Karzai, according to the security official and another Afghan familiar with the president’s thinking, saw freeing the prisoners as a way to accomplish two goals: He could curry favor with the Taliban in hopes of bringing the insurgents to talks, and he could punish the United States for what he considered its insincere effort to initiate peace talks.
其他一些阿富汗官员称，事实并非如此。阿富汗一名安全事务高官称，国家安全局建议将88人中的许多人羁押待审，但却遭到了卡尔扎伊的否决。为避免惹怒总统，这名高官要求匿名。这名安全事务官员和另一名熟悉总统想法的阿富汗人称，卡尔扎伊认为，释放这些囚犯可以达到两个目的：一是讨好塔利班，以期拉拢叛乱分子参与谈判；二是惩罚美国，因为他认为美国发起和平谈判的努力不够真诚。
Mr. Karzai was also said to be upset over the reported revelations in a new memoir by the former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates about Mr. Obama’s apparent dislike of the Afghan leader and his lack of faith in the American war effort here.
据报道，美国前国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)在一本新回忆录里透露，奥巴马似乎不喜欢这位阿富汗领导人，并且对美国在阿富汗的战争努力缺乏信心。据称，卡尔扎伊对此很不满意。