KABUL, Afghanistan — A deadly earthquake hit northern Afghanistan and Pakistan on Monday afternoon, causing heavy damage and sowing panic across one of the world's most impoverished and war-torn regions.
阿富汗喀布尔——本周一下午，阿富汗和巴基斯坦北部地区发生地震，造成重大损失，也在世界上最贫穷、最饱受战争蹂躏的地区之一引发了恐慌。
At least 208 were reported killed, with 131 or more of them in Pakistan, and that figure seemed likely to rise significantly, officials in both countries said.
据报道至少有208人丧生，其中逾131人在巴基斯坦。两国官员都说，这一数字很有可能大幅上升。
Buildings were jolted and broke down in the shaking, sending people pouring into city streets in Peshawar and Islamabad in Pakistan, and in Kabul, the Afghan capital.
地震发生时，在巴基斯坦的白沙瓦和伊斯兰堡，以及阿富汗首都喀布尔，建筑物在地震中发生了晃动和破裂，人们纷纷涌上街道。
“All the while, I was looking at the towering building, fearing it would come crashing on me anytime,” said Muhammad Ali, a vendor in a shopping area of Peshawar. “The whole building was swinging from one side to the other.”
“我一直在盯着这座高楼大厦，担心它随时会崩塌，把我压在下面，”白沙瓦一座购物区的商贩穆哈默德·阿里(Muhammad Ali)表示。“整座楼晃来晃去。”
The quake, which struck at 1:39 p.m. and registered a preliminary magnitude of 7.5, was centered in the Hindu Kush mountain range, about 160 miles northeast of Kabul. The quake's depth was reported at 132 miles, the U.S. Geological Survey said, and its effects were felt as far away as New Delhi.
地震发生在下午1时39分，初步测定震级为7.5级，震心位于喀布尔东北约160英里的兴都库什山脉。美国地质调查局(U.S. Geological Survey)称地震深度为132英里（约210公里），震感远及新德里。
In one of the worst scenes in Afghanistan, at least 12 young students were killed at a girls' school packed with as many as 900 people in the northern province of Takhar, said Sunatullah Taimoor, a spokesman for the provincial governor. Most of the victims were crushed to death in a panicked stampede to leave the building, a rented four-story house in the city of Taliqan.
阿富汗最惨烈的受灾场面之一发生在塔哈尔省。省长发言人桑纳图拉·泰摩尔(Sunatullah Taimoor)说，该省北部一所900人的女校中，至少有12名年轻学生丧生。大多数死难者的死因是，在恐慌中逃离大楼时发生了踩踏。学校位于塔洛甘(Taliqan)，是一座租来的四层楼房。
“The neighbors had to bring wooden ladders, remove the windows and help the students out,” said the school's principal, Abdul Hai.
“邻居们搬来木梯，拆掉窗户，帮助学生逃出来，”该校校长阿卜杜勒·海(Abdul Hai)说。
Officials in both countries declared emergencies.
两国官员都宣布进入紧急状态。
In Pakistan, provincial authorities in Peshawar said at least 63 people had been killed in surrounding Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province. Severe tolls were also expected in other remote regions of the north, including in the Federally Administrated Tribal Areas.
巴基斯坦白沙瓦的省政府机构表示，在该市所属的开伯尔-普什图省的周边地区，至少有63人丧生。在北方的其他偏远地区，包括联邦直辖部落地区(Federally Administered Tribal Areas)，预计也出现了严重损失。
In the northern city of Peshawar, Mehreen Ali, 30, a dentist, said she was sitting in a car outside a shopping plaza when the vehicle started shaking.
在北部城市白沙瓦，30岁的牙医莫瑞恩·阿里(Mehreen Ali)说，当时她正在一所购物广场外，坐在一辆车上，突然车身开始摇晃。