KABUL, Afghanistan — A young woman has been hospitalized in northern Afghanistan and is hoping to travel to Turkey for reconstructive surgery after her husband cut off her nose, the police and the woman’s family said on Tuesday.
阿富汗喀布尔——警方和一名年轻女子的家人周二表示，在被丈夫割去鼻子后，该女子在阿富汗北部的医院接受治疗，现在正希望去土耳其做整形手术。
The woman, Reza Gul, 20, was attacked by her husband with a knife on Sunday in Shar-Shar, a village in an impoverished and Taliban-controlled part of Faryab Province. Reza Gul was in stable condition on Tuesday in a hospital in Maimana, the provincial capital, according to a spokesman for the Faryab police, Sayed Massoud Yaqubi.
这名女子叫列扎·古尔(Reza Gul)，20岁。周日当天在沙尔-沙尔村，她被丈夫持刀袭击。该村位于法里亚布省，所在地区处于塔利班的控制下，经济贫困。据法里亚布警方发言人赛义德·马苏德·雅各比(Sayed Massoud Yaqubi)称，列扎·古尔在省会迈马纳的一家医院接受治疗，情况稳定。
Maroof Samar, a doctor who is the acting director of public health in Faryab, said Reza Gul had been in “very critical condition when she was brought in, she had lost much blood.”
现为法里亚布代理公共卫生局长的医生马鲁夫·萨马尔(Maroof Samar)称，列扎·古尔“送来时失血过多，情况非常危险”。
Throughout the six years Reza Gul and her husband, Muhammad Khan, 25, had been married, he and his family members had regularly abused her, beating her and binding her in chains, said Reza Gul’s mother, Zarghona. Mr. Khan regularly went to Iran for work, returned for a few months during which he abused his wife, then left her with his family members, she said.
列扎·古尔的母亲扎尔古娜(Zarghona)称，和25岁的穆罕默德·汗(Muhammad Khan)结婚后的六年里，列扎·古尔经常被穆罕默德·汗及其家人虐待，他们或是打她，或是用链子把她捆起来。扎尔古娜说，穆罕默德·汗常去伊朗工作，回家待几个月后，又把妻子留下和他的家人一起生活。在家期间，他会虐待妻子。
“This infidel cut off my daughter’s nose,” Zarghona said. “If I catch him, I’ll tear him to pieces.”
“这个异教徒割掉了我女儿的鼻子，”扎尔古娜说。“如果抓到他，我要把他撕成碎片。”
Though Reza Gul brought her severed nose to the hospital, the facility was not equipped to handle the complicated surgery needed to reattach it. Dr. Samar said the governor of Faryab had enlisted the Turkish Embassy in Kabul to help arrange travel to Turkey for surgery and treatment. Reza Gul received a national identity card on Tuesday, he said, which she will use to apply for a passport to get to Turkey as soon as possible.
列扎·古尔把她被割下的鼻子带去了医院，但重新把鼻子接上所需的手术颇为复杂，医院没有进行这种手术的能力。萨马尔称，法里亚布省省长已经请喀布尔的土耳其大使馆帮忙安排列扎·古尔去土耳其接受手术和治疗。他说，列扎·古尔在周二拿到了一张身份证，她将用这张身份证申请护照，尽快前往土耳其。
Her plight has again brought attention to endemic violence against women in Afghanistan, which the United Nations Development Program rated one of the worst countries in the world to be born female. Despite more than a decade of efforts to enact an Afghan legal system that protects women, and more than $1 billion in legal aid from the United States alone, Afghan women remain particularly vulnerable to abuse. And their attackers, for the most part, are only rarely punished.
列扎·古尔的遭遇再次引起了外界对阿富汗国内针对女性的猖獗暴力的关注。阿富汗被联合国开发计划署(United Nations Development Program)列为全世界女性生存环境最恶劣的国家之一。尽管为在阿富汗实行保护女性的法律制度而做出的努力持续了十多年，并且单是美国就提供了十多亿美元的法律援助，但阿富汗女性依然特别容易遭到虐待。而行凶者中基本上只有很少的人受到惩罚。
On Sunday afternoon, Zarghona said, Reza Gul and Mr. Khan got into an argument over his having taken his uncle’s 6- or 7-year-old daughter as his fiancée, with the intention of making her his second wife this year. During the dispute, Mr. Khan erupted into a rage, took a knife and cut off his wife’s nose, said Zarghona, who goes by a single name.
扎尔古娜说，周日下午，列扎·古尔和丈夫发生了争吵，起因是穆罕默德·汗让他六七岁的外甥女做了自己未婚妻，并打算让其在今年成为他的第二个妻子。扎尔古娜说，争执过程中，穆罕默德·汗勃然大怒，拿刀割下了妻子的鼻子。人们称呼扎尔古娜时，只用一个单名。
Mr. Khan and one of his brothers then threw Reza Gul on the back of a motorcycle with the intention of taking her away to kill her, Zarghona said. But news of the attack spread quickly in the village, causing an uproar, and Mr. Khan fled for his life.
扎尔古娜说，然后，穆罕默德·汗和一个兄弟把列扎·古尔扔到一辆摩托车上，想把她带走杀了。但关于此次袭击的消息很快便在村子里传开，引起了骚动。穆罕默德·汗只好逃走。
“I went to the Taliban,” Zarghona said. “I asked them: ‘Is this the Islam we are following? My daughter’s nose chopped off? But you are doing nothing about it. I want justice.’”
“我找到塔利班，”扎尔古娜说。“我问他们：‘这是我们信奉的伊斯兰教吗？让我女儿的鼻子被人割掉？你们却什么都不做。我想要个公道。”
“They got really angry and now they are searching for the boy,” she said. “I hope they find him before the police do.”
“他们真的生气了，现在正在找他，”她说。“我希望他们在警察之前找到他。”
Mr. Yaqubi, the police official, said the authorities had heard that “the Taliban has already arrested Muhammad Khan, and he is presently in their custody.”
警官雅各比称，当局听说“塔利班已经逮捕了穆罕默德·汗，将他关起来了。”