KABUL, Afghanistan — A bungled attempt by the Afghan government to cultivate a shadowy alliance with Islamist militants escalated into the latest flashpoint in the troubled relationship between Afghanistan and the United States, according to new accounts by officials from both countries.
阿富汗喀布尔——阿富汗和美国官员新近表示，在阿富汗政府计划与伊斯兰派武装分子开展秘密合作的过程中，一次遭到挫败的尝试，升级成了两国之间坎坷关系的最新雷区。
The disrupted plan involved Afghan intelligence trying to work with the Pakistan Taliban, allies of Al Qaeda, in order to find a trump card in a baroque regional power game that is likely to intensify after the American withdrawal next year, the officials said. And what started the hard feelings was that the Americans caught them red-handed.
官员们透露，这个被挫败的计划中，阿富汗情报机构试图与基地组织(Al Qaeda)的盟友巴基斯坦塔利班(Pakistan Taliban)进行合作，以期在错综复杂的区域权力较量中取得一张王牌，这场较量在明年美国撤军之后可能还会加剧。但是计划实施过程中却被美国抓了个正着，使得局面陷入尴尬。
Tipped off to the scheme, United States Special Forces raided an Afghan convoy that was ushering a senior Pakistan Taliban militant, Latif Mehsud, to Kabul for secret talks last month, and now have Mr. Mehsud in custody.
上个月，收到通风报信的美国特种部队突袭了一列阿富汗车队，抓获了巴基斯坦塔利班的一名高级武装分子拉蒂夫·马哈苏德(Latif Mehsud)，当时他正前往喀布尔进行秘密会谈的途中。现在马哈苏德由美国特种部队羁押。
Publicly, the Afghan government has described Mr. Mehsud as an insurgent peace emissary. But according to Afghan officials, the ultimate plan was to take revenge on the Pakistani military.
在公开场合，阿富汗政府称马哈苏德是叛军的一名和平使者。但阿富汗官员透露，他们的最终计划是对巴基斯坦军方实施报复。
In the murk of intrigue and paranoia that dominates the relationship between Pakistan and Afghanistan, the Pakistanis have long had the upper hand. A favorite complaint of Afghan officials is how Pakistani military intelligence has sheltered and nurtured the Taliban and supported its insurgency against the Afghan government.
巴基斯坦和阿富汗之间的关系以阴谋诡计和偏执多疑为主要特征，而巴基斯坦在双方关系中长期占上风。阿富汗官员最喜欢抱怨的一件事情就是，巴基斯坦军方情报机构庇护并扶植了塔利班，并对其针对阿富汗政府的叛乱活动提供了支持。
Now, not content to be merely the target of a proxy war, the Afghan government decided to recruit some proxies of its own by seeking to aid the Pakistan Taliban in its fight against Pakistan’s security forces, according to Afghan officials. And they were beginning to make progress over the past year, they say, before the American raid exposed them.
阿富汗官员称，现在，阿富汗政府不甘于成为一场间接战争里的目标，决定自己也要招募一些代理人，手段是尝试扶持巴基斯坦塔利班，让他们与巴基斯坦安全部队搞对抗。这些官员透露，在过去一年里，他们已经开始取得进展，直到美军的突袭行动暴露了此事。
Although Afghan anger over the raid has been an open issue since it was revealed in news reports this month, it is only now that the full purpose of the Afghan operation that prompted the raid has been detailed by American and Afghan officials. Those officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss secret intelligence matters.
虽然自从新闻报道这个月曝光袭击行动以来，阿富汗对袭击的愤怒已经公开化，但直到现在，一些美国和阿富汗官员才披露了这次遭到突袭的阿富汗行动的全部目的。由于讨论的是保密的情报事宜，这些官员要求匿名。
The thinking, Afghan officials said, was that the Afghans could later gain an advantage in negotiations with the Pakistani government by offering to back off their support for the militants.
阿富汗官员表示，这次行动的设想是，阿富汗以后能以撤销对武装分子的支持为条件，在与巴基斯坦政府的谈判中取得一些好处。
Aiding the Pakistan Taliban was an “opportunity to bring peace on our terms,” one senior Afghan security official said.
支持巴基斯坦塔利班，是“一个按我们的方式带来和平的机会”，一名阿富汗高级安全官员说。
From the American standpoint, though, it has exposed a new level of futility in the war effort here. Not only has Washington failed to persuade Pakistan to stop using militants to destabilize its neighbors — a major American foreign policy goal in recent years — but its failure also appears to have persuaded Afghanistan to try the same thing.
不过，站在美国的视角，这一事件在全新的程度上展示出，阿富汗战争是一场徒劳。华盛顿不仅未能说服巴基斯坦停止利用武装分子来破坏邻国的稳定（这是近年来美国外交政策的一个重要目标），而且似乎也未能说服阿富汗，让它不要尝试同样的事情。
Worse still, for American officials, was the Afghans’ choice of militant allies. Though the Afghan and Pakistan Taliban are operationally distinct, they are loosely aligned; the Pakistani insurgents, for instance, pledge allegiance to Mullah Muhammad Omar, the founder of the Afghan Taliban. In the estimation of American officials, support for one invariably bleeds into assistance for the other.
在美国官员看来，更糟糕的是，阿富汗选择了与哪些武装分子合作。虽然阿富汗和巴基斯坦的塔利班的行动是相互分离的，但二者有松散的联系；比如，巴基斯坦叛乱分子宣誓效忠阿富汗塔利班的创始人毛拉·穆罕默德·奥马尔(Mullah Muhammad Omar)。美国官员认为，支持其中一方，就免不了也为另一方提供了帮助。
At the same time, the Pakistan Taliban shares its base in the tribal areas of Pakistan with a slew of Islamist groups that have tried to mount attacks in the West, including the remnants of Al Qaeda’s original leadership. The Pakistan Taliban has also showed a willingness to strike beyond the region, unlike the Afghan Taliban. Mr. Mehsud, for instance, is suspected of having a role in the foiled plot to detonate a car bomb in Times Square in 2010, American officials said.
与此同时，巴基斯坦塔利班也会把该组织地处巴基斯坦部落地带的基地，分享给一系列试图在西方发动袭击的伊斯兰主义团体，其中就包括基地组织原领导层的残余力量。不同于阿富汗塔利班，巴基斯坦塔利班已经显示出在该地区以外实施袭击的意愿。美国官员举例说，马哈苏德涉嫌参与了2010年在纽约时报广场引爆一枚汽车炸弹的计划，那起阴谋后来遭到了挫败。
Both Afghan and American officials said the Afghan plan to aid the Pakistan Taliban was in its preliminary stages when Mr. Mehsud was seized by American forces. But they agree on little else.
阿富汗和美国官员都说，马哈苏德被美国军队抓获时，阿富汗支持巴基斯坦塔利班的计划还处于初步阶段。但双方在其他问题上的观点却大不相同。
American officials interviewed about the raid say they saved Afghanistan from folly. Pakistan’s use of militants has left that country torn by violence with group after group spinning out of the government’s control — the Pakistan Taliban being Exhibit A. The Americans also said it was not clear how much help the Afghans could actually provide the Pakistan Taliban.
对于这次突袭行动，接受采访的美国官员说，他们防止了阿富汗做出愚蠢之举。巴基斯坦政府利用武装分子的做法，致使一个又一个团体脱离政府掌握，令该国遭到暴力袭击的摧残，巴基斯坦塔利班就是最大的证据。美国官员也表示，他们不清楚阿富汗到底能为巴基斯坦塔利班提供多大的实际帮助。
In the Afghan telling, the theft of their prized intelligence asset is an egregious example of American bullying, and President Hamid Karzai remains furious about it. Afghan officials assert that Mr. Mehsud’s continued detention could still derail a pact to keep American troops here beyond next year, despite the progress toward reaching a deal made during talks this month between Mr. Karzai and Secretary of State John Kerry.
阿富汗这一方的说法是，该国宝贵的情报遭到窃取，是美国恃强欺弱的一个突出例子，哈米德·卡尔扎伊总统(Hamid Karzai)仍然对此感到愤怒。阿富汗官员声称，美国持续扣押马哈苏德，可能会阻碍两国间达成一项协议，尽管本月卡尔扎伊和美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)之间的会谈，朝达成协议迈进了一步。该协议旨在把美军驻留阿富汗的时间延长到明年之后。
Aimal Faizi, a spokesman for Mr. Karzai, said that Mr. Mehsud had been in contact with officials from the National Directorate of Security, Afghanistan’s intelligence agency, for “a long period of time.”
卡尔扎伊的发言人艾马尔·法伊兹(Aimal Faizi)说，马哈苏德跟阿富汗情报机构国家安全局(National Directorate of Security)的官员保持联系已经有“很长一段时间”。
The Pakistan Taliban leader “was part of an N.D.S. project like every other intelligence agency is doing,” Mr. Faizi said in an apparent reference to the support provided to the Afghan Taliban by Pakistan intelligence. “He was cooperating. He was engaged with the N.D.S. — this I can confirm.”
法伊兹说，这名巴基斯坦塔利班头目“参与了国安局的一个项目，和所有其他情报机构的类似项目没有区别，”他明显是指巴基斯坦情报机构对阿富汗塔利班的支持。“他很合作，对国安局很配合。这一点，我可以证实。”
Mr. Faizi did not elaborate on the nature of the cooperation. But two other Afghan officials, when asked why they were willing to discuss such a potentially provocative plot, said Mr. Mehsud’s detention by the United States had already been exposed — it was first reported by The Washington Post — ruining his value as an intelligence asset and sinking their plan.
法伊兹没有详细说明合作的性质。但另外两名阿富汗官员在被问及为什么愿意谈论这样一个可能引发争议的计划时，两人称，美国扣押马哈苏德的事已经曝光——最初报道这件事的是《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)——破坏了他作为情报资产的价值，而且也破坏了他们的计划。
As a consolation, the Afghan officials said they now wanted Pakistan to know that Afghanistan could play dirty as well. One said they would try again if given the opportunity.
阿富汗官员说，一个令人宽慰的地方是，他们现在想让巴基斯坦知道，阿富汗也可以玩阴谋。其中一名官员说，如果有机会，他们还会再次尝试。
Afghan officials dismissed American admonishments about the dangers of working with militants as the kind of condescension they had come to expect. No one in Mr. Karzai’s government was naïve enough to believe they could turn the Pakistan Taliban into a reliable proxy, said a former Afghan official familiar with the matter.
在阿富汗官员看来，美国关于跟武装分子合作存在危险的警告，是一种高高在上的姿态，他们已经预料到美国会这么想。一位熟悉事件的前阿富汗官员说，卡尔扎伊的政府中没有哪个人会天真地认为他们可以把巴基斯坦塔利班转变为可靠的代理人。
“I would describe what we wanted to do was foster a mutually beneficial relationship,” the former official said. “We’ve all seen that these people are nobodies — proxies.”
“要我来说，我们想做的事情是，培养一种互惠互利的关系，”这名前官员表示。“我们都把代理人视为无足轻重的小角色。”