BAGRAM, Afghanistan — On Thursday at 9:10 a.m., the gates of the Bagram Prison swung open, and 65 men with long beards and new clothes walked out to freedom. The moment showed clearly just how thoroughly President Hamid Karzai had broken with the American military, here now 12 years.
阿富汗巴格拉姆——周四上午9点10分，巴格拉姆监狱(Bagram Prison)大门开启，65名蓄着长胡子、身着新装的男子走出监狱，重获自由。这一时刻清楚地表明，哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)总统已与在此驻扎12年的美军彻底决裂。
American officials had lobbied intensely with the Afghan government, first in private and then in increasingly acrimonious terms in public, to prevent the release of men they believed were not only dangerous insurgents with American and Afghan blood on their hands, but also men who would be convicted of that in an Afghan court of law.
此前，美国官员曾大力游说阿富汗政府，起初是私下游说，后来发展到公开发表越来越尖锐的言论，试图阻止阿富汗政府释放这些男子。美国官员认为，这些男子不仅是危险的叛乱分子，双手沾满美国人和阿富汗人的鲜血，而且还会在阿富汗法庭上被判有罪。
Instead, American soldiers on duty at Bagram could do nothing more than watch on closed-circuit television monitors as Afghan military police used Ford pickup trucks to ferry the prisoners to the nearest bazaar to catch taxis, saving them a mile-and-a-half walk. Prison authorities had given each man, in addition to clothes, warm coats and 5,000 afghanis, or about $90 — nearly half the base monthly salary of an Afghan police officer.
然而，当阿富汗宪兵用福特(Ford)敞篷卡车将这些囚犯送往最近的集市去打车时，驻守巴格拉姆的美军士兵只能通过闭路电视监视器眼睁睁地看着。因为可以坐车前往，这些囚犯便不用走那1.5英里（约合2.4公里）的路程。除了新衣服之外，狱方还给这些犯人每人发放了暖和的大衣和5000阿富汗尼，大致相当于90美元（约合550元人民币），几乎是阿富汗警察每月基本工资的一半。
Many American military leaders could not help noticing a troubling parallel with Iraq, where hundreds of Sunni inmates have escaped from Iraqi prisons, often in mass jail breaks, giving new impetus to the insurgency there.
美军的许多领导人情不自禁地觉得，这是一个与伊拉克类似的麻烦。伊拉克已有数百名逊尼派囚犯逃出监狱，再度埋下了叛乱的祸端。那些囚犯往往是在大规模越狱事件中逃出去的。
As one NATO officer in Kabul noted wryly: “Here, they don’t even have to escape. They just walk out, thanks to our own allies.”
一名驻喀布尔的北约(NATO)军官如是挖苦：“在这里，他们连越狱都用不着。多亏了我们的盟友，他们径直走了出去。”
Mr. Karzai continues to refuse to sign a long-term security agreement, which would keep American troops here past this year; the Americans want the agreement signed by December, well before the April 5 presidential election in Afghanistan. Last April the American military signed an agreement that only Afghan forces could raid homes at night, even though the military long regarded the raids as essential to its strategy.
卡尔扎伊依然拒绝签署一项长期安全协议，该协议将允许美军在今年之后继续驻扎在这里。美国本希望协议能在距阿富汗的4月5日大选尚有些时日的12月得到签署。去年4月，美军签署了一项协议。该协议规定，只有阿富汗军队可以在夜间搜查民居，尽管美军历来认为，此类搜查是其战略的关键。
Last March, in response to demands from Mr. Karzai, the American military also pulled Special Operations units out of parts of Wardak Province, and since then has all but stopped bombing raids to avoid risking more civilian casualties. And although Mr. Karzai has complained about coalition-caused civilian deaths, he has been relatively silent about far more numerous civilian casualties inflicted by insurgents; last month, he said nothing in public when his aides apparently concocted photographic evidence of civilians killed in an airstrike.
去年3月，为了回应卡尔扎伊的要求，美国军队还将特种部队(Special Operations)撤出了瓦尔达克省的部分地区。自此之后，美方几乎停止了空袭，以免造成更多的平民伤亡。卡尔扎伊曾对联盟造成的平民死亡表示不满，但却对叛乱分子导致的更多平民伤亡保持了相对的沉默。上个月，卡尔扎伊的助手明显假造了平民在空袭中丧生的照片证据，他在公开场合却没有任何表示。
Against this backdrop, said a coalition official speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the political sensitivities, “This does feel like that moment when everything changes.” The official added, “We’ve survived many disputes with the Afghans. We take a few body blows, but we muddle through and the mission keeps going.”
一名联盟官员表示，在这种背景下，“此事确实让人有天翻地覆的感觉。”由于政治敏感性，这名官员要求匿名。该官员还表示，“我们挺过了与阿富汗人的很多争端。我们几次遭受严重打击，但我们总算熬过来了，任务仍在继续。”
In its statement, the American military expressed “strong concern about the potential threats these detainees pose to coalition forces and Afghan security forces and civilians.”
美国军方在声明中表示，“强烈关注这些囚犯对联盟、阿富汗安全部队及平民构成的潜在威胁。”
Mr. Karzai, at a news conference in Ankara on Thursday, responded that the American military should “stop harassing” the Afghan judiciary, according to Mr. Faizi.
据法伊兹透露，周四，卡尔扎伊在安卡拉举行的新闻发布会上回应称，美国军队应该“停止骚扰”阿富汗的司法部门。
The 65 men were ordered released by an Afghan review board, which determined that there was not enough evidence to try them, according to Abdul Shakor Dadras, who heads the board. Mr. Dadras said he expected that most of the remaining 23 detainees would be released as well.
下令释放这65名囚犯的是阿富汗的一个审查委员会，该委员会的负责人阿卜杜勒·沙克尔·达拉斯(Abdul Shakor Dadras)表示，委员会的结论是，并没有对他们进行审判的足够证据，达拉斯表示，他希望剩余23名囚犯中的大部分人也能获释。
In Washington, the response of Obama administration officials was more muted than that of the military in Afghanistan. “Is it really worth a showdown if the Afghans don’t want to prosecute?” one official said. “And what about the quality of the evidence? Anyone could be prosecuted. It doesn’t mean they have to be.”
与驻阿美军相比，华盛顿的奥巴马政府官员反应比较温和。“如果阿富汗不想起诉，摊牌真的值得吗？”一名官员说。“证据的质量如何？任何人都有可能被起诉，但这并不意味着他们必须遭到起诉。”