Less than 24 hours after the Taliban opened an office for peace talks in the Gulf emirate of Qatar, the Afghan government on Wednesday backed away from even starting discussions with its adversaries and broke off talks on future military cooperation with the United States.
塔利班在海湾酋长国卡塔尔为和平谈判开设办公室还不到24小时，阿富汗政府就于周三表示拒绝甚至与其敌手开始对话，并且中断了与美国有关未来军事合作的谈判。
It was at best a rocky prelude to peace talks with the Taliban, which have collapsed repeatedly in the past. American officials have long pushed for such negotiations, believing that they are crucial to stabilizing Afghanistan after the withdrawal of Western forces next year.
从最好的角度看，这是与塔利班和平对话的艰难前奏，这种谈判以前多次破裂。美国官员一直都在推动这种谈判，认为其对于明年西方军队撤离之后稳定阿富汗至关重要。
In one statement, signaling his anger at how the Americans had negotiated the opening of the Taliban office, President Hamid Karzai suspended talks on a bilateral security agreement with the United States that would allow American troops to stay after 2014.
在一份声明中，哈米德·卡尔扎伊总统(Hamid Karzai)暂停了与美国有关双边安全协议的谈判，该协议将允许美国在2014年后继续驻军阿富汗。卡尔扎伊以此举表示，他对美国人如何就塔利班开设办公室问题展开谈判感到愤怒。
In a separate announcement several hours later, the government delayed indefinitely any encounters with the Taliban in Qatar, saying that it would not meet with them unless the insurgents lowered the office’s profile. When the Taliban opened the office Tuesday evening, they described it as a political office, and put up a banner calling it the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan — the name they used when they were in power — suggesting that they saw it more as an office of a government in exile.
几个小时之后，在另外一份声明中，阿富汗政府无限期推迟了任何在卡塔尔与塔利班接触的计划，声称除非塔利班降低该办公室的规格，否则政府不会与其会面。塔利班于周二晚开设办公室时，称其为政治办公室，并且挂起条幅，上书阿富汗伊斯兰酋长国(Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan)。这是塔利班在阿富汗当权时用的名字，意味着他们更像是把其视为一个流亡政府的办公室。
“The way the Taliban office was opened in Qatar and the messages which were sent from it was in absolute contrast with all the guarantees that the United States of America had pledged,” said the statement from President Karzai’s office.
卡尔扎伊总统办公室的声明说，“塔利班在卡塔尔开设办公室的方式，以及其传达的信息，与美利坚合众国此前做出的所有保证背道而驰。”
The Afghan government has been angered by Taliban signals that the insurgents see themselves as an alternative to Mr. Karzai's government. At the office’s opening on Tuesday in Doha, the Taliban also raised the white flag they had used when they ran the country and sang the national anthem used when they were in power before the American-led invasion in 2001.
塔利班发出的信号表示他们认为自己可以替代卡尔扎伊政府。这令阿富汗政府感到愤怒。周二，该办公室于多哈启用时，塔利班还挂起了其执政阿富汗时使用的白色旗子，并唱了当时的国歌。在美国率领的多国部队攻入阿富汗前，塔利班曾掌管政权。
“The Taliban cannot call themselves an Islamic emirate,” Aminuddin Mozafari, a member of the High Peace Council and a former commander who fought the Russians, said. “They are just a group of insurgents with no legal status.”
阿富汗高级和平委员会(High Peace Council)成员、曾与俄罗斯作战的前指挥官阿米努丁·莫扎法里(Aminuddin Mozafari)说，“塔利班不能自称为伊斯兰酋长国。他们只是一群没有合法身份的叛乱分子。”
Afghan officials have long said that the office should be only an “address” for the Taliban in a neutral place, and not the symbol of a government in exile.
阿富汗官员一直都在说，该办公室应该只是塔利班在一个中立国设置的一个“地址”，而不是一个流亡政府的标志。
The Taliban, however, seemed to cast the office as something closer to an official embassy, underpinning the insurgents’ claim to legitimacy.
然而，塔利班似乎将其视作一个有点像正式使馆的东西，从而巩固了塔利班自称的合法性。
They said they planned to use the office to meet with representatives of the international community and the United Nations, interact with the press, “improve relations with countries around the world” and, almost as an afterthought, meet “Afghans if there is a need.” They did not mention the Afghan government.
他们说，他们打算用该办公室与国际社会及联合国的代表会面，与媒体联络，“与全球各国改善关系”，并且，似乎是后来才想起来的，“如果需要的话，与阿富汗人”见面。他们并未提到阿富汗政府。
The rapid-fire developments on Wednesday came a day after the American military formally handed over control of security in all of Afghanistan to Afghan forces, a development that was followed hours later with the three sides’ announcing that peace talks would begin in Doha.
周三事态迅速发展的前一天，美国军队正式将阿富汗境内的安全控制转交给阿富汗军队。交接完成几个小时之后，三方面宣布将在多哈开始和平会谈。
If the peace talks do go forward, they would be a significant step in peace efforts that have been locked in an impasse for nearly 18 months, after the Taliban walked out and accused the United States of negotiating in bad faith.
如果和平会谈确实得以举行的话，那将是和平努力中的重要一步。自从塔利班指责美国不守信用，退出上次会谈之后，和平努力在过去的近18个月中一直毫无进展。
But the Taliban may have other goals. Their language made clear that they sought to be dealt with as a legitimate political force with a long-term role to play beyond the insurgency. In that sense, in addition to aiding in talks, the actual opening of their office in Qatar — nearly a year and a half after initial plans to open it were announced and then soon after suspended — could be seen as a signal that the Taliban’s ultimate aim is recognition as an alternative to the Western-backed government of President Karzai.
但是，塔利班可能还有其他目标。他们说的很清楚，他们寻求被作为一个能长期起作用的合法政治力量对待，而不仅仅是被当做叛乱分子。在这个意义上，在卡塔尔实际开设塔利班办公室，除了对谈判有帮助外，还可以被视为一个信号，即塔利班的终极目的在于得到承认，他们是可以替代西方支持的卡尔扎伊政府的势力。有关开设该办公室的初步计划是一年半前宣布的，但很快被暂停，直到周二办公室才正式开设。