AMSTERDAM — After more than a decade out of work because of a back injury and chronic alcoholism, Fred Schiphorst finally landed a job last year and is determined to keep it. He gets up at 5:30 a.m., walks his dog and then puts on a red tie, ready to clean litter from the streets of eastern Amsterdam.
阿姆斯特丹——因为背部受伤和慢性酒精中毒失业十多年之后，弗雷德·希普霍斯特(Fred Schiphorst)终于在去年得到了一份工作，并下定决心要一直干下去。早上5点半起床遛完狗，他便会扎上一条红色领带，准备去阿姆斯特丹东区的大街上清理垃圾。
“You have to look sharp,” said Mr. Schiphorst, 60, a former construction worker.
“你得看起来麻利点儿，”曾经当过建筑工人的60岁的希普霍斯特说。
His workday begins unfailingly at 9 a.m. — with two cans of beer, a down payment on a salary paid mostly in alcohol. He gets two more cans at lunch and then another can or, if all goes smoothly, two to round off a productive day.
他的工作日雷打不动地从上午9点开始——先要来两罐啤酒，他的工资大部分都是以酒的形式支付的，而这便是“头款”。午餐时，他能再拿到两罐。等到忙碌的一天结束时，还会有一罐啤酒等着他，如果一切顺利，就是两罐。
“I’m not proud of being an alcoholic, but I am proud to have a job again,” said Mr. Schiphorst, the grateful beneficiary of an unusual government-funded program to lure alcoholics off the streets by paying them in beer to pick up trash.
“我不会因为自己是酗酒者而感到自豪，但我又有了一份工作，这让我很骄傲，”希普霍斯特说。作为一个独特的政府资助项目的受益人，他心怀感激。该计划旨在把酗酒者诱离街头，所采取的办法是给他们发啤酒，以换取他们去拾垃圾。
In addition to beer — the brand varies depending on which brewery offers the best price — each member of the cleaning team gets half a packet of rolling tobacco, free lunch and 10 euros a day, or about $13.55.
除了啤酒——牌子变化不定，要看哪家酒厂的报价最为低廉——清洁队的每个成员每天还能得到半包卷烟、一顿免费午餐，以及10欧元（约合人民币83元）。
The program, started last year by the Rainbow Foundation, a private but mostly government-funded organization that helps the homeless, drug addicts and alcoholics get back on their feet, is so popular that there is a long waiting list of chronic alcoholics eager to join the beer-fueled cleaning teams.
该项目是由彩虹基金会(Rainbow Foundation)在去年启动的，目前广受欢迎，很多酗酒者都渴望加入这支以啤酒为激励手段的清洁队，从而累积起了一份长长的等待名单。彩虹基金会是一家私营机构，但主要靠政府资助，其宗旨是帮助无家可归者、瘾君子和酗酒者重新站起来。
One of the project’s most enthusiastic supporters is Fatima Elatik, the district mayor of eastern Amsterdam. As a practicing Muslim who wears a head scarf, Ms. Elatik personally disapproves of alcohol but says she believes that alcoholics “cannot be just ostracized” and told to shape up. It is better, she said, to give them something to do and to restrict their drinking to a limited amount of beer with no hard alcohol.
阿姆斯特丹东区的区长法蒂玛·艾拉提克(Fatima Elatik)是项目最热心的支持者之一。作为一个信教的穆斯林，戴着头巾的艾拉提克个人并不赞成饮酒的行为，但她认为人们“不应一味地排斥”酗酒者，告诉他们必须振作起来。她说，更好的方法是给他们点事做，同时只准他们喝一定量的低度啤酒。
Conservative members of the Amsterdam City Council have derided what they call the “beer project” as a waste of government money and a misguided extension of a culture of tolerance that has already made the city a mecca for marijuana users and spawned Europe’s best-known red-light district.
阿姆斯特丹市议会(Amsterdam City Council)的保守派议员把该计划称为“啤酒项目”。他们嘲笑说，这既是对政府资金的浪费，同时也是对包容性文化的错误延伸，而这种文化已经让阿姆斯特丹成为吸食大麻者的天堂，还催生出了欧洲最知名的红灯区。
Hans Wijnands, the director of the Rainbow Foundation, dismissed such complaints as political grandstanding at a time when, even in the Netherlands, “it is becoming more fashionable to support repressive measures.” Alarmed by what it said was a rise in crime caused by liberal drug laws, the Dutch government announced a plan in 2010 to bar foreigners from buying cannabis in so-called coffee shops, which sell marijuana and hashish legally. Amsterdam’s mayor ordered city police to ignore the ban, which was supposed to go into effect nationwide this year.
彩虹基金会负责人汉斯·威南茨(Hans Wijnands)驳斥称，即便是在荷兰，“支持采取高压措施也正变得更加流行起来”，挑这种时候发出上述抱怨，不过是政治作秀而已。荷兰政府曾经表示，由于与毒品有关的法律太过宽松，荷兰的犯罪率有所上升。政府对此忧心忡忡，于是在2010年公布了一项计划，意在禁止外国人到可以合法出售大麻和哈希什的“咖啡馆”里购买大麻。这条禁令本该于今年在全国范围内实施，但阿姆斯特丹的市长却下令该市警方无视该禁令。
The idea of providing alcoholics with beer in return for work, he said, was first tried in Canada. It took off in the Netherlands in part because the country has traditionally shunned “zero tolerance” in response to addiction. Amsterdam now has three districts running beer-for-work street cleaning programs, and a fourth discussing whether to follow suit. Other Dutch cities are looking into the idea, too.
威南茨说，让酗酒者用工作换啤酒的点子，一开始是在加拿大试行的。它之所以能在荷兰传播开来，在某种程度上是因为该国向来不会对成瘾报“零容忍”的态度。在阿姆斯特丹，目前已经有三个区在开展“工作换啤酒”街道清洁计划，还有一个正在讨论要不要如法炮制。荷兰其他一些城市也在研究这个点子。
The basic idea is to extend to alcoholics an approach first developed to help heroin addicts, who have for years been provided with free methadone, a less dangerous substitute, in a controlled environment that provides access to health workers and counselors.
其基本思路是把原本用来帮助海洛因成瘾者的办法延伸到酗酒者身上：多年来，在接触得到医护人员以及咨询顾问的受控环境中，海洛因成瘾者一直都能得到免费的美沙酮——一种危险性没那么高的替代品。
“If you just say, ‘Stop drinking and we will help you,’ it doesn’t work,” said Mr. Wijnands, whose foundation gets 80 percent of its financing from the state and runs four drug consumption rooms with free needles for hardened addicts. “But if you say, ‘I will give you work for a few cans of beer during the day,’ they like it.”
“如果你光说，‘别喝了，我们会帮你的’，根本不起作用，”威南茨说。“但如果你说，‘我会给你一份工作，一天能挣几罐啤酒’，他们就愿意干了。”他领导的基金会80%的经费由政府提供，旗下运营着四间“毒品安全屋”，里边有给吸毒成瘾者准备的免费针头。
To shield the government from criticism that it is subsidizing drinking, the Rainbow Foundation insists that it pays for the beer given to Mr. Schiphorst and his fellow alcoholics out of its own funds. “For the government, it is hard to say, ‘We buy beer for a particular group of people,’ because other people will say, ‘I would like some beer, too,’ ” Mr. Wijnands said.
为了不让政府遭受补贴酗酒者的恶评，彩虹基金会一直坚称，发给希普霍斯特等酗酒者的啤酒用的是自有资金。“对政府而言，很难说，‘我们要给某个特定群体买啤酒’，因为其他人会说，‘我也想喝点啤酒，’”威南茨说。
“It would be beautiful if they all stopped drinking, but that is not our main goal,” he added. “You have to give people an alternative, to show them a path other than just sitting in the park and drinking themselves to death.”
“如果他们都不再喝酒，那就太美妙了，但这并不是我们的主要目标，”他还说。“必须给人们一个替代方案，告诉他们，除了坐在公园里把自己喝死，还有另外一条路可走。”
The cleaning teams are forbidden from drinking while out on the street, but Mr. Schiphorst and his work mates say they get enough beer before they set out in the morning and during their lunch break to keep them going. “This is my medicine; I need it to survive,” said Mr. Schiphorst, his hands shaking as he gulped his first beer of the day at a morning meeting with Rainbow Foundation supervisors.
清扫人员不得在街道上喝酒，不过希普霍斯特和同事表示，早上动身工作之前和午休期间喝的啤酒足以让他们度过在街上工作的那段时间。“这是我的救命药，有它我才能活得下去，”希普霍斯特说。在同彩虹基金会的督导员举行的晨会上，希普霍斯特大口饮下当天的第一罐啤酒，双手在颤抖。
Locals in the heavily immigrant eastern district who used to curse alcoholics for turning the area’s main park, Oosterpark, into an unruly outdoor bar now greet them with smiles as they do their cleaning rounds, dressed in orange jackets and carrying bright yellow garbage bags.
在外来人口聚集的东区，当地人过去会咒骂酗酒者，因为他们把该地区主要的公园伍斯特公园变成了一个乱糟糟的室外酒吧。现如今，当身着橙色上衣的他们携着亮黄色垃圾袋进行清扫工作时，过去咒骂他们的当地人会笑脸相迎。
“This is not a beer project — it is a cleaning project,” said the district mayor, Ms. Elatik, adding that it had proved far more successful in keeping drunks out of Oosterpark than previous government initiatives. On a recent afternoon, there were just three people drinking in the park, instead of the dozens who used to gather there, she said.
“这不是啤酒项目，而是清洁项目，”东区区长艾拉提克说。她还表示，事实证明，在让酗酒者远离伍斯特公园这一点上，这个办法远比政府之前采取的种种措施成功。她说，前不久的一天下午，在公园里喝酒的只有三个人，而不是像过去那样有几十个。
Until the beer-for-work program started, the authorities had tried to purge the park of drunks by banning alcohol there and stepping up patrols by security guards. But this only forced alcoholics to move to other parks in the area and led to fights with the guards. Mr. Schiphorst himself was detained after one such brawl.
工作换啤酒项目开始实施前，当局一直试图通过禁止在公园饮酒和加强安保巡逻来清理公园里的酗酒者。可是，这样做不过是把他们赶去附近的其他公园，导致他们与安保人员打架。希普霍斯特自己就曾因一起这样的打架事件而被拘押。
“It is easy to say, ‘Get rid of them and punish them,’ ” Ms. Elatik said. “But that does not solve the problem.
“‘把他们赶走并施以惩罚’，这说起来容易，”艾拉提克说。“但这解决不了问题。”
“Maybe I’m a softy, but I am happy to be soft if it helps people. They are human beings with problems, not just a problem to be swept away.”
“或许是因为我心肠软，但如果能帮助别人，心肠软我也乐意。他们只是有问题的人，而不是应该被扫地出门的问题。”