KABUL, Afghanistan — After a potential opening last week to ease Afghanistan’s political crisis, the presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah signaled on Sunday that more deadlock was ahead, promising again that he would not accept any decisions made by the country’s election commission after the panel rejected a list of his demands.
阿富汗喀布尔——在上周一个可能缓解阿富汗政治危机的契机出现之后，总统候选人阿卜杜拉·阿卜杜拉(Abdullah Abdullah)周日暗示，前方将出现更大的僵局，并再次发誓，由于该国的选举委员会拒绝了他的一系列要求，他不会再接受委员会做出的任何决定。
“From today onward, we reject all the decisions and activities of the Independent Election Commission, which will not have any legal value anyway,” said Baryalai Arsalai, Mr. Abdullah’s campaign manager. “They have no intention to assess the fraudulent votes and separate the dirty votes from the clean votes.”
“从今天开始，我们将不会承认独立选举委员会(Independent Election Commission)的一切决定和行动，反正它们也不会有任何法律价值，”阿卜杜拉的竞选经理巴亚莱·阿萨莱(Baryalai Arsalai)说，“他们无意调查假选票，也不打算把肮脏的选票和干净的选票区分开来。”
In the two weeks since the presidential runoff vote, the election process has been shadowed by accusations of fraud and conspiracy, with the Abdullah campaign accusing a range of officials all the way to the presidential palace of rigging the vote against him. There have been dramatic protests flooding the streets of Kabul, and secretly captured phone calls that allegedly show election officials conspiring to rig the race.
在决选投票后的两个星期里，大选流程因为一些欺诈和阴谋指控而蒙上阴影，阿卜杜拉的竞选团队指责包括总统府官员在内的大批官员，对选票进行不利于他本人的不当操作。喀布尔街头爆发了激烈的抗议活动，一些秘密截获的通话记录据说证明了选举官员曾密谋操纵选举。
The United Nations had tried to encourage the Abdullah campaign to re-engage with the election commission. After some persuading, the campaign agreed, issuing a letter outlining 13 demands that it said would help mitigate the alleged fraud, which the campaign has said ranges from 1.5 million to 2.5 million falsified ballots. In response, the campaign received a letter from the commission on Sunday rejecting the demands. Now the process is up in the air again, along with millions of Afghan voters left to wonder whether their ballots will count, and with Western officials watching in concern as they try to organize a military withdrawal. Apart from public admonitions by the United Nations and the Obama administration for the Afghan candidates to follow the electoral process as laid out under law, the threshold for any sort of international invention is unclear.
联合国此前尝试鼓励阿卜杜拉的竞选团队与选举委员会重新接触。在一些劝说之后，阿卜杜拉的竞选团队同意了，并发出了一封信函，上面列出了13项要求。该团队称，被指存在的欺诈行为涉及150到250万张假选票，而这13项要求将有助于消除这些欺诈活动的影响。竞选团队周日收到了委员会拒绝这些要求的回信。现在，大选流程再次陷入僵局，数百万阿富汗选民不知道自己的投票是否有效。西方官员则在焦急地观望，他们正试图从阿富汗撤军。联合国和奥巴马政府曾公开警告阿富汗候选人遵守法律规定的大选流程，但目前还不清楚启动任何国际干预的门槛是什么。
The next official step for the election commission is likely to be the announcement of preliminary results, tentatively set for July 2. While Mr. Abdullah has demanded a stop to the vote counting, the commission has ignored the request and has continued tallying the ballots.
选举委员会下一步的正式行动可能是宣布初选结果。这项活动暂定于7月2日进行。尽管阿卜杜拉已经要求暂停票数统计，委员会却没有理会这一要求，计票过程仍在继续。
Earlier, the commission declined to release partial results, fearful of stoking tensions. Now the commissioners are insisting that partial results will be released on time, a move that is sure to incite more anger from Mr. Abdullah and his supporters. While thousands of his followers have so far protested peacefully in the streets, many fear that the release of the results — which are expected to show his opponent, Ashraf Ghani, with a sizable lead — could heighten the crisis. At issue is whether the more than seven million Afghans turned out for the runoff election, a figure that eclipsed the first round. While many suspect the number is too high, attention began to home in on regions of the country supportive to Mr. Ghani. In those areas, voter turnout surged, in some cases tripling.
早些时候，由于担心会加剧紧张氛围，委员会拒绝公布不完全的投票结果。目前，委员们坚称，将按时公布部分投票结果。此举无疑会引发阿卜杜拉及其支持者的更大愤怒，数千名阿卜杜拉的支持者已经在街头举行了和平抗议。许多人担心，选举结果的公布——预计其竞争对手阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani)会大幅领先——可能令危机恶化。目前的问题是，阿富汗的700多万人口是否都参与了决选投票。这个数字比第一轮投票高出太多。许多人怀疑这个数字过高，阿富汗一些支持加尼的地区开始引发关注。在这些地区，选民投票率出现了激增，有时甚至是第一轮的三倍。
Mr. Abdullah cried foul almost immediately, sure that his opponent, with the help of the election commission and others, had engineered extensive fraud. Having lost the 2009 presidential election in a race marked by such fraud, Mr. Abdullah was primed to speak out this time around.
阿卜杜拉几乎立刻提出了强烈抗议，称其对手在选举委员会及其他人的帮助下实施了大规模欺诈。2009年的大选也出现了类似的欺诈行为。在输掉2009年的大选之后，阿卜杜拉这一次已经下定决心不再沉默。
His campaign also produced what it said was evidence of one of the top election officials’ consorting with members of Mr. Ghani’s team to stuff ballots and install friendly officials in various provinces.
他的竞选团队还提供了一些证据，声称可以证明一名高级选举官员与加尼团队的成员勾结，投出大量假选票，并在各个省份安插支持自己的官员。
While Mr. Ghani has denounced the tapes as fake, very few others have publicly challenged the credibility of the intercepts. Instead, most have wondered aloud how the campaign managed to get its hands on illegal recordings.
尽管加尼否认了磁带的真实性，几乎没有其他人公开质疑这些截获而来的信息的可信性。但大多数人都表示，想要知道阿卜杜拉的竞选团队是如何获得这些非法录音的。
For his part, Mr. Ghani has vehemently denied the fraud accusations. He has said that his team campaigned hard for the second round, and organized the support of key mullahs and tribes in the country’s ethnic Pashtun areas, which led to the extraordinary turnout. Mr. Ghani is an ethnic Pashtun.
加尼已经激烈地否认了欺诈指控。他说，自己的团队为第二轮投票进行了大力宣传，获得了普什图族(Pashtun)地区关键的毛拉和部落的支持，因此才会出现如此高的投票率。加尼是普什图族人。