ABI BARAK, Afghanistan — With hope gone that the 2,100 people thought to be buried by a mountain of mud here could be rescued, most efforts in this remote corner of northern Afghanistan have turned toward keeping the rest alive.
阿富汗阿卜巴利克——阿富汗北部这个边远地区据认有2100人被山体滑坡掩埋，随着把他们救出来的希望变得渺茫，救援工作重点已转向帮助活下来的人。
Survivors gathered away from the mass grave that was once a third of their village on Sunday, jostling for aid in an open-air market of sorts. Thousands congregated around neatly stacked boxes of blankets, mats, oil and flour as elders shouted from makeshift platforms, orchestrating the delivery of the badly needed goods.
周日，幸存者聚集在村外，在一个有点像露天市场的地放为得到救援物资挤成一团，他们原来村子的三分之一现在是一个集体坟墓。数千人围在整齐堆放的箱子周围，箱子里装着毯子、垫子、食油和面粉，村中的长者在临时搭建的台子上吆喝着，指挥这些急需物资的分发工作。
But Burhanuddin had no time for that. Along the base of this picturesque valley, where a massive chunk of earth cleaved from a neighboring mountain cascaded onto his and nearly 300 other homes on Friday, he was digging.
但是布尔汉丁(Burhanuddin)却无暇领取救援物资。周五，一片巨大山体从一个临近的山上剥离，倾泻到这个风景如画的山谷中，掩埋了位于谷底的他的和其他近300个人家的房子，他仍在挖掘。
His hands were bruised and swollen, and his eyes brimmed with tears. With his battered shovel, he had gouged a roughly 10-foot hole above the spot where he believed his family had been interred in a sudden grave.
他的双手淤青肿胀，他的眼睛里满含泪水。他用一个破铁锹在他认为是自己家人被突然埋葬的地方上面，已经挖了一个近3米深的坑。
“I know they are all dead — my wife, my two sons and my daughter,” said Burhanuddin, 56, who goes by a single name. “I know it is just a waste of time, but my heart doesn’t stop. It keeps telling me to dig more and try harder. ”
“我知道他们都死了，我的妻子、两个儿子和一个女儿，”今年56岁的布尔汉丁说道，布尔汉丁是他的全名，他说，“我知道这是在浪费时间，但我的心停不下来。它告诉我要继续使劲挖下去。”
Overwhelmed by the sheer scale of the disaster, his neighbors stood along the edge of the churned mud floor, where even the smell of death had been buried.
他的邻居们站在这片被搅动了的泥地边上，为这场灾难的规模之大所震惊，这里就连死亡的气息也被掩埋了。
Burhanuddin’s story offers an account of one of the biggest natural disasters visited on Afghanistan in more than a decade. His experience is hardly unique; it is a stand-in for the hundreds of others who lost wives, children, mothers and fathers in the landslide on Friday.
布尔汉丁的故事记叙了这场发生在阿富汗的十多年来最严重的一起自然灾害。他的经历远非独一无二；他是在周五这场山体滑坡中失去了妻子、孩子、父母的数百人的一个缩影。
Hamad Agha, 14, was buried in a blanket of earth for more than an hour before he and his father were rescued. His mother and sister perished.
14岁的哈马德·阿迦(Hamad Agha)被埋在泥土里一个多小时后，和父亲一起被救了出来。他的母亲和妹妹已经殒命。
“I am going to dig until I find them,” he said, wiping away his tears with the sleeve of his soiled green shalwar. “I know they are somewhere there, if not alive, at least I will see their bodies.”
“我会一直挖下去，直到找到她们，”他一边说，一边用身上沾满泥土的绿色传统套装的袖子抹着眼泪，“我知道她们在这里的某个地方，如果她们死了，至少我将看到她们的尸体。”
Laila, 18, lost his entire family when the mountain fell on his home. Nasrullah, a shy 12-year-old, lost his father. Azim, 25, swallowed the loss of his wife, children, mother and father with a weary resignation forged over decades of strife
18岁的莱拉(Laila)失去了家中所有的人，山体滑坡掩埋了他家的房子。还不到12岁的纳斯鲁拉(Nasrullah)失去了他的父亲。25岁的阿齐姆(Azim)默默地接受了失去妻子、孩子和父母的事实，几十年的战乱已经让他只能听天由命。
“What can I do?” he asked, surrounded by throngs of others sharing similar loss. “It is only by God’s will that this happens.”
“我能做什么？发生这种事情只会是上天的旨意，”他说，他身边围着同样失去家人的一群他人。
Life was already hard in Abi Barak, once a village of roughly 1,000 homes tucked into a remote district of Badakhshan Province, between the borders of China and Tajikistan.
在阿卜巴利克，生活本来就很艰辛，这个曾经只有约1000户人家的村子位于巴达赫尚省的一个偏远地区，该地区与中国和塔吉克斯坦接壤。
The homes are constructed of mud, fashioned from the same hills they inhabit. There is no electricity, and residents share communal wells, trucking buckets of water up a steep ravine to their compounds, which fan out across the inclines of the stunning valley of rolling mud and grass mountains.
这里的房子都是用当地山上的泥土建造的。村里没有电，村民公用几口水井，他们用卡车将水桶运上陡峭的沟壑，送到自己住的院子里，他们的院子呈扇型分布在这个美丽山谷的斜坡上，周围是连绵起伏的覆盖着泥和草的山丘。
For decades, the impoverished villagers of Abi Barak have eked out an existence as farmers and sheepherders, traveling more than an hour down a battered road to sell their goods in neighboring Faizabad, the capital of Badakhshan. A river used to run through the valley, providing a crucial source of nourishment for the plants and livestock, as well as the people. But the landslide has engulfed the river, too, its only trace a pool of water marooned along one edge of the village.
几十年来，阿卜巴利克的贫穷村民靠种植和牧羊勉强过活，他们要走上一个多小时的泥路才能来到附近巴达赫尚省的省会城市法扎巴德去贩卖自己的产品。曾经有一条小河流过这个山谷，为庄稼、牲畜以及这里的人提供重要的营养来源。但是，这次山体滑坡也吞噬了这条河，留下的唯一踪迹是被困在村子一边的一池水。
Heavy machinery can scarcely reach Abi Barak, and its presence would still only delay the inevitable. Afghan leaders were expected to designate the site a mass grave in the coming days.
重型机械很难进入阿卜巴利克，这些机械的最终到来也只能是推迟一个不可避免情况的出现。阿富汗领导人预计会在未来几天把这里宣布为一个集体坟墓。
On a visit to the area Sunday, accompanied by European ambassadors and a phalanx of security, Vice President Yunus Qanooni expressed his condolences to the villagers of Abi Barak and pledged further government support.
周六，阿富汗副总统尤努斯·加努尼(Yunus Qanooni)在欧洲的大使们和一群保镖的陪同下来到这里，他向阿卜巴利克的村民表示哀悼，并承诺了政府的进一步支持。
That aid was already in evidence. Numerous tents have sprung up to house those whose homes lined the base of the valley. Though flour, rice and oil have arrived in abundance, most are eating bread brought in by aid agencies because there is nowhere for the villagers to cook. Coalition forces also have chipped in, sending 13 tons of tents, blankets and carpets to the province on Sunday morning.
救援行动在这里已能明显看到。为那些家在谷底的人们提供住处的大批帐篷已经支起。虽然运来了充足的面粉、大米和食油，但大多数人仍在吃援助机构带进来的面包，因为村民没有地方可以做饭。联合部队也提供了帮助，于周日上午将13吨帐篷、毯子和地毯送到该省。