KABUL, Afghanistan — When President Hamid Karzai met with an audience of supporters gathered by the Afghan state television network, RTA, six months ago, he was asked what he would consider a favorable conclusion to the security negotiations he was conducting with the United States.
阿富汗喀布尔——六个月前，总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)会见一群由阿富汗国家电视台RTA召集起来的支持者时，他被问道，就当时他与美国进行的安全谈判来说，他所认为的有利结果是怎样的。
“It is favorable if they surrender to us,” he said.
“如果他们答应我们的所有条件，那才是有利的，”他说。
Another question: But what if instead they just left?
另一个问题是：但如果他们就此撤军呢？
He smirked, then said: “The U.S. has come and will not go, brother. It does not go. Therefore, ask for your demands and don’t worry.”
他得意地笑着说：“兄弟，美国人已经来了，就不会走。他们不会走。所以，尽管提要求吧，别担心。”
That unguarded moment in front of a friendly audience speaks volumes about the impasse between Mr. Karzai and his American allies.
面对一群态度友好的观众，卡尔扎伊这一刻的真情流露充分解释了他和美国盟友之间的僵持局面。
In the face of a warning delivered in person on Monday by the national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, that the United States would consider leaving no troops at all in Afghanistan past 2014 if Mr. Karzai did not promptly sign a long-term security agreement, he has made it clear that he considers it a bluff. Not only did he refuse to sign, he added conditions, including the release of all inmates from the Guantánamo Bay prison camp.
周一，美国国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)当面向卡尔扎伊提出警告，如果他不立即签署一项长期安全协议，美国会考虑在2014年之后撤出部署在阿富汗的所有军队。但卡尔扎伊已表明，他认为这不过是虚张声势。他不仅拒绝签署，还附加了更多条件，其中包括释放关塔那摩监狱(Guantánamo Bay)的所有囚犯。
He is, in effect, betting billions of dollars in international assistance that the United States does not want to go.
他这样做实际上是在拿几十亿美元的国际援助做赌注，赌美国人不愿意离开。
His close aides have echoed that assessment through the recent days of diplomatic crisis. (“We don’t believe there’s any zero option,” his spokesman, Aimal Faizi, said recently.) But their optimism was not widely shared in Afghanistan on Tuesday, as Ms. Rice flew back to Washington with no promise of the follow-up talks Mr. Karzai said he wanted to pursue.
他的亲信们在最近几日的外交危机中已传达了这种看法。（他的发言人艾马尔·法伊兹[Aimal Faizi]近来说，“我们不相信会有什么零选项。”）但是，随着赖斯周二飞回华盛顿，对于卡尔扎伊所说的他希望继续进行的后续谈判也没有做出任何承诺，阿富汗各界对他们的这种乐观态度并没有表现出太多认同。
Even many of Mr. Karzai’s friends were criticizing his refusal to conclude a deal.
甚至卡尔扎伊的许多朋友也因其拒绝达成协议，而对他提出批评。
Since Sunday, Mr. Karzai’s most high-profile critic has been a man widely considered to be his political mentor and godfather, Sibghatullah Mujadidi. Mr. Mujadidi, 89, was the chairman of the gathering of Afghan leaders, the loya jirga, that approved the security deal over the weekend and recommended that Mr. Karzai sign it by year’s end.
周日以来，卡尔扎伊最高调的批评者却是被许多人视作其政治导师与教父的西卜加图拉·穆贾迪迪(Sibghatullah Mujadidi)。89岁的穆贾迪迪是阿富汗长老会议——大支尔格会议主席。会议已于周末批准了安全协议，也建议卡尔扎伊在年底之前签署协议。
But when Mr. Karzai refused, and said he would continue negotiating with the Americans on new grounds, Mr. Mujadidi stunned the president by vowing to quit his government posts and go into exile if the agreement were not signed in the next few days.
但是当卡尔扎伊拒绝签署，并表示将在新的基础之上继续与美国人谈判时，穆贾迪迪却让总统大吃一惊。他发誓，如果这项协议不在接下来几天内签署完成，他就会辞去政府内的职务，流亡海外。
“Unfortunately President Karzai did not see the interests of his country, and he’s trying to enforce his personal opinions and wrongheaded ideas on us,” Mr. Mujadidi said. “Becoming president made him prideful.”
穆贾迪迪说，“不幸的是，卡尔扎伊总统没有认清自己国家的利益所在，而是在努力将他个人的观点和固执己见的想法强加于我们。成为总统已让他变得傲慢自大了。”
Some Afghan officials worried that their president, who has made brinkmanship with the Americans his defining trait, had finally gone too far.
一些阿富汗官员担心，他们这位素以与美国人玩边缘政策著称的总统这一次终于做得太出格了。
“Mark my words, if we do not sign this security agreement with the Americans, things will get worse than Iraq and the 1990s Afghan civil war,” said Sayed Ishaq Gailani, a member of Parliament from Paktika Province. He urged the Americans to remember that “Karzai is not Afghanistan, he is just another individual, with illogical and illegal demands that are against all diplomatic norms.”
“相信我，如果我们不和美国人签署这项安全协议，形势会变得比伊拉克、比90年代阿富汗内战时还要糟，”来自帕克蒂卡省的议员赛义德·伊沙克·盖拉尼(Sayed Ishaq Gailani)说。他要求美国人记住，“卡尔扎伊不代表阿富汗，他只是一个人，其不合理、不合法的要求违背了所有的外交准则。”
“We don’t want the Americans to burn down the entire house to exterminate one louse,” he added.
“我们不希望美国人为了灭一只虱子而烧掉整栋房子，”他补充说道。
If the Americans do completely withdraw at the end of 2014, leaving no long-term training mission and virtually guaranteeing that international aid would not flow, the Afghans might face the disintegration of their security services. Some predict a descent into civil war, or a possible Taliban resurgence.
如果美国真的到2014年底全部撤军，不部署任何长期的培训计划，也就几乎从实质上断绝了任何国际援助，阿富汗将可能面临安全部队的解体。一些人预测，阿富汗会陷入一场内战，或者面临塔利班的复兴。
The Americans risk losing long-term bases in Afghanistan, and a staging platform for counterterrorism missions against Al Qaeda and other groups in the region.
美国则可能会损失它在阿富汗的长期基地，以及一个针对基地组织(Al Qaeda)和该地区其他组织的反恐任务集结平台。
Stephen Biddle, a political science professor at George Washington University, compared it to a game of chicken, when two cars are driving head on at each other to see which one will swerve first.
乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)政治学教授斯蒂芬·比德尔(Stephen Biddle)将这比作一场懦夫博弈——两辆车迎头驶向对方，看谁胆小先转向。
“Neither driver wants a wreck,” he said, “but they are both willing to risk something they don’t want in order to get something they do want, and that creates car wrecks occasionally.”
“两个司机都不想撞，”他说，“但是他们都愿意冒着发生自己不愿见到的事情的风险，来得到一些他们真正想要的结果，而那偶尔就会造成撞车事故。”
Each side has still left itself a way out. Ms. Rice did not say the Americans would definitely walk away after 2014, only that they would begin planning for the possibility.
两方还是给自己留了一些余地。赖斯也并没有说，美国一定会在2014年之后撤离，只是他们会开始针对这种可能进行安排。
Mr. Karzai did say he would sign, but suggested not until after the presidential elections, next April. Many close to him still think he might still sign earlier, taking political cover by bowing to the loya jirga’s decision.
卡尔扎伊也的确表示他会签，但表示要在明年四月总统选举后再签。很多与他接近的人还是认为，他可能会更早签，以遵从大支尔格会议的决议作为政治上的挡箭牌。
Others wondered if it would really be as impossible as the Americans claim to plan for a long-term presence of 8,000 to 12,000 if the security agreement were delayed until April.
其他一些人则在好奇，如果安全协议推迟到4月才签署，部署一支规模在8千到1.2万人的长期驻扎部队，是否真的像美国人所说的那样绝无可能。
Perhaps more than any logistical complication, however, political currents within the United States might add to pressure for a complete pullout, despite American military commanders’ desire for lasting bases in Afghanistan. Recent polls in the United States show more resistance than not to the idea of keeping American forces there.
然而，相比较任何后勤上的复杂性，也许美国国内的政治舆论会带来更大压力，推动全面撤军，尽管美国军方指挥官都希望能在阿富汗保留长期军事基地。美国最近的民调显示，对于保留美国在阿富汗的军事力量，反对大于支持。
“He doesn’t realize how little support there is in America toward Afghanistan; he doesn’t realize how critical this is for the Afghan government,” Mr. Mujadidi said. “The Americans are the winners in this game, because what America has to lose is far less than what Afghanistan has to lose.”
“他没有意识到，美国国内对阿富汗的支持多么小；他也没有意识到，这对阿富汗政府有多重要，”穆贾迪迪说，“美国人是这场游戏中的赢家，因为美国会失去的远少于阿富汗会失去的。”