KABUL, Afghanistan — The Olympic Stadium in Kabul has not seen this big a crowd since the Taliban used the place for public executions, with attendance mandatory.
阿富汗喀布尔——喀布尔的奥运体育场人潮汹涌，自从塔利班(Taliban)在这里公开执行死刑后，这里就再也没有出现过这么多人，而且那时人们还是被强制要求到场的。
No coercion was needed on Thursday to bring tens of thousands of delirious fans here to greet their national soccer team on its return from winning its first international championship. The underdog team stunned India, the defending South Asian champions, in a 2-0 victory in Katmandu, Nepal.
本周四，成千上万名狂热的球迷自发聚集在这里欢迎他们的国家足球队在赢得第一个国际冠军后胜利归来。在于尼泊尔加德满都举行的比赛中，这支原本不被看好的队伍以2:0使南亚足球锦标赛卫冕冠军印度大吃了一惊。
In fact, the police were trying, in vain, to keep them all out, worried that members of the crowd would get out of control and hurt the team with their adulation — which very nearly happened in some cases.
其实，警察试图把球迷拦在外面的做法只是白费力气。他们担心人群失控后，其高涨的热情会给足球队带来伤害——好几次都差点发生这种情况。
Few things could better symbolize the drastic social changes in Afghanistan since the Taliban era, when soccer was banned, even for small children. During the group’s five-year reign, and most of the 10 years of civil war that preceded it, Afghanistan did not even field a team in international competition.
几乎没有什么能比这件事更好地说明塔利班统治结束后，阿富汗所发生的巨大社会变化。当时，足球运动遭到禁止，甚至连儿童都不能踢球。在塔利班五年的统治以及此前10年内战的大部分时间里，阿富汗甚至都未曾派足球队参加过国际赛事。
Now the Afghan national team is on a roll, flattening Pakistan’s national team 3-0 in a friendly match last month held in a new stadium complete with artificial turf. But beating India, a country just as soccer mad and 40 times as populous, and for the South Asia Cup honors, sent Afghans into the streets for what turned into a 24-hour party.
这次，阿富汗国家队势如破竹，上个月在一个铺着人造草皮的体育场举行的友谊赛中以3:0击溃了巴基斯坦国家队。然而，打败对足球一样狂热而且人口是阿富汗40倍的印度，并获得南亚杯(South Asia Cup)的荣誉，还是促使阿富汗人走上街头，开始了24小时的狂欢。
Thousands of tracer rounds lighted up the sky here in Kabul and drowned out everything else for half an hour as the game ended on Wednesday night. A plea by the Kabul police and the National Directorate of Security not to shoot into the air to celebrate went unheeded. In fact, many of the most intense salvos were coming from police station compounds.
周三夜间，比赛结束后，数千枚曳光弹点亮了喀布尔的天空，其声响淹没了所有其他东西，这种状态一直持续了半个小时。喀布尔警方和阿富汗国家安全局(National Directorate of Security)一直要求人们，不要通过向空中射击来庆祝，但是无人理会。实际上，最密集的枪声均来自警察局的院内。
City hospitals reported at least five people wounded by falling bullets. But many people wisely stayed wherever they were, with many impromptu sleepovers at places of business, and celebrations could be heard around the clock.
据城市里的医院报告，至少有五人被掉落下来的子弹所伤。很多人明智地待在原地，还有很多人则干脆在商店里过夜，庆祝活动一直在持续着。
When the team arrived home at Kabul International Airport on Thursday afternoon, the traffic jams put to shame the vast ones that occur when President Hamid Karzai travels by convoy through the streets. Several square miles of the city were mobbed with fans, heading for the Olympic Stadium on foot.
周四下午，当球队回到喀布尔国际机场时，所引发的的交通阻塞在规模上甚至超过了总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)的车队通常带来的巨大拥堵。整个城市有几平方英里的地方都挤满了正在步行前往体育场的球迷。
Many of the celebrators were quick to note that for once they had something to be proud of that had nothing to do with war.
庆祝人群中的许多人纷纷表示，他们终于有了可以自豪的东西，而且与战争毫无瓜葛。
“Our victory showed the international community that we are not the nation of war,” said Sara Rana, 18, a high school senior. “We can do it, no matter how hard the job.”
“我们的胜利告诉国际社会，我们不是个战争国家，”18岁的高三学生萨拉·拉那(Sara Rana)说。“我们可以成功，不管有多艰难。”
And many noted as well that ethnic rivalries and political differences were all forgotten as people cut Afghan flags into tunics and sewed them into shirts, painted their faces with black, red and green stripes, and climbed onto any vehicle that was moving — half a dozen to a motorcycle, 20 to a small car, 100 to a minibus.
许多人还指出，部族敌对和政治分歧都不见了，人们把阿富汗国旗做成袍子和衬衫，脸上涂上黑、红、绿三色条纹，随便找到什么移动的车辆就往上爬。摩托车上有五六个人，小车上站了20个，小巴上则有100人。
The normally garrulous and accessible spokesman for the Taliban, Zabiullah Mujahid, could not be reached for comment on Thursday despite numerous efforts.
塔利班发言人扎比乌拉·穆贾希德(Zabiullah Mujahid)平时总有话说，也很容易联络到。周四的时候多次试图找到他发表评论，却都没有成功。
Even in Kandahar, the insurgents’ historic heartland, huge crowds turned out to celebrate, many flying the national flag that was revived after the Taliban fell and took their stark white banner with them.
就连在叛逆分子常年盘踞的腹地坎大哈，也有巨大的人流走上街头庆祝，许多人挥舞着塔利班倒台后恢复的国旗，而塔利班执政期间所使用的白旗则无处可见。
At the Olympic Stadium, as the soccer team assembled on a raised dais with assorted dignitaries, the police chained the gates to keep the crowds from flooding into the already full stadium, which has seating for only 15,000.
在奥林匹克体育场，足球队员与各类要人聚集到台上。警察把大门锁起来，以免人群涌入已然爆满的体育场。这里的座位只能容纳1.5万人。
“I don’t know how to express my excitement about the victory,” Gen. Zahir Akhbar, head of the Afghan Olympic Committee, said from the besieged dais. “Now, this is the time Afghan politicians should learn from national football.”
高台被人群团团围住，台上的阿富汗奥组委主席查希尔·阿赫巴尔上将(Zahir Akhbar)说，“我无法用言语表达对这场胜利的激动之情。现在，阿富汗政坛应当向国家足球队学习。”
People climbed up the high stanchions of the overhead lights and the bleachers, and finally battered down the locked gates of the stadium and poured onto the field, trying desperately to reach the players.
人们纷纷爬上高高的灯柱和露天看台，最终还挤开了体育场锁上的大门，涌入场地内，疯狂地想要够到运动员。
The police evacuated the players after one was overcome with adulation. “He was about to get killed by the crowd because they all jumped on him,” one policeman said. 
一名队员被粉丝扑倒后，警方护送球队撤离现场。“他差点都要被人群弄死了，他们都往他身上扑，”一名警察说。
The police finally regained control and got all the players safely into armored cars. Even then, Kabul's deputy police chief, Dawood Amin, said several of the vehicles suffered broken windshields from so many people standing on top of them.
警方费了一番功夫才控制住局面，把所有队员安全地转移到防弹汽车中。喀布尔警察局副局长达伍德·阿民(Dawood Amin)称，就算是这样，还是有几辆车的挡风玻璃破了，因为有太多人站在上面。
“People were kissing and touching the vehicles as if they were a shrine, not a vehicle,” he said, laughing cheerfully.
“人们对这些车又亲又摸，好像它们不是什么车，而是圣坛，”他一边说，一边开心地笑起来。