Alain Resnais, the French filmmaker who helped introduce literary modernism to the movies and became an international art-house star with nonlinear narrative films like “Hiroshima Mon Amour” and “Last Year at Marienbad,” died on Saturday in Paris. He was 91.
法国导演阿兰·雷奈(Alain Resnais)周六在巴黎去世，享年91岁。他将文学上的现代主义引入电影，凭借《广岛之恋》(Hiroshima Mon Amour)和《去年在马里昂巴德》(Last Year at Marienbad)等非线性叙述的电影成为世界闻名的艺术片导演。
His death was confirmed by the French president, François Hollande, who called Mr. Resnais one of France’s greatest filmmakers.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)证实了他去世的消息，他说雷奈是法国最伟大的导演之一。
Although his name was often associated with the French New Wave directors — notably Jean-Luc Godard and François Truffaut, whose careers coalesced around the same time his did — Mr. Resnais actually belonged to a tradition of Left Bank intellectualism that drew on more established, high-culture sources than the moviecentric influences of the New Wave. Where Godard’s 1960 film, “Breathless,” was a pastiche of low-budget American gangster films, Mr. Resnais’s breakthrough feature, “Hiroshima Mon Amour,” in 1959, took on two subjects weighted with social and political significance: the American nuclear destruction of Hiroshima, Japan, and the German occupation of France.
虽然他的名字经常与法国新浪潮运动的导演们联系在一起——比较著名的有让-卢克·戈达尔(Jean-Luc Godard)和弗朗索瓦·特吕弗(François Truffaut)，他们是和雷奈在同一时期展开电影事业的——但是雷奈实际上遵循左岸派的知识分子传统。新浪潮运动所受影响以电影为中心，左岸派则受更有声望的高端文化影响。戈达尔1960年的电影《筋疲力尽》(Breathless)是对美国低成本黑帮电影的模仿，而雷奈1959年的突破性电影《广岛之恋》则展现了两个具有重要社会和政治意义的主题：美国对日本广岛的核毁灭以及德国对法国的占领。
To bind these themes into a melancholy love story about a French actress (Emmanuelle Riva) who has a brief affair with a Japanese architect (Eiji Okada), Mr. Resnais commissioned a screenplay from the writer Marguerite Duras, then one of the emerging stars of the “nouveau roman” movement, which was challenging literary narrative conventions.
该片讲述的是一位法国女演员（艾曼纽·莉娃[Emmanuelle Riva]饰）和一位日本建筑师（冈田英次饰）的短暂的婚外恋。为了把上述社会政治主题融入这个悲伤的爱情故事中，雷奈委托作家玛格丽特·杜拉斯(Marguerite Duras)编写剧本。杜拉斯是当时挑战文学叙述传统的“新小说”运动中的一颗新星。
Mr. Resnais continued to collaborate with celebrated authors like Alain Robbe-Grillet, a leading proponent of the nouveau roman, on “Last Year at Marienbad” (1961) and Jorge Semprún of Spain for “La Guerre Est Finie” (1966) and “Stavisky...” (1974), yet his films could never be described as simple literary exercises.
之后，雷奈继续与著名作家合作，比如与新小说运动的主要支持者阿兰·罗伯-格里耶(Alain Robbe-Grillet)合作《去年在马里昂巴德》(1961)，与西班牙的豪尔赫·塞姆普鲁恩(Jorge Semprún)合作《战争终了》(La Guerre Est Finie, 1966)和《史塔维斯基》(Stavisky, 1974)，但是他的电影永远都不能简单地描述为文学演习。
Fascinated by the ability of film editing to take apart and reassemble fragments of time — one of his first professional experiences was as an editor and assistant director on “Paris 1900,” a 1947 documentary on the French capital during its belle époque — Mr. Resnais incorporated the effects of scrambled memories, déjà vu and fantasy into his work.
雷奈为电影剪辑能把时间片段分割并重新组合的能力而着迷——他早期的一个职业经验就是担任1947年的记录片《巴黎1900》(Paris 1900)的编辑和副导演，这部记录片讲述的是“一战”前美好时代的法国首都的情况——雷奈把杂乱的回忆、旧事幻现和幻想融入自己的作品中。
In “Last Year at Marienbad,” which won the Golden Lion at the 1961 Venice Film Festival, a man identified only as “X” (Giorgio Albertazzi) tries to convince a woman identified only as “A” (Delphine Seyrig) that they had had an affair the year before at Marienbad, the fashionable European spa. As they wander the corridors and grounds of a sprawling chateau, A resists X’s advances, as a third man, M (Sacha Pitoëff), who seems to be A’s husband, looks on.
《去年在马里昂巴德》获得了1961年威尼斯电影节金狮奖。在片中，一个代号为“X”（希奥尔西奥·艾伯塔齐[Giorgio Albertazzi]饰）的男人努力想说服一个代号为“A”（戴尔芬·塞里格[Delphine Seyrig]饰）的女人：他们一年前在时髦的欧洲温泉胜地马里昂巴德有过婚外情。他们在庞大的城堡的走廊和庭院里漫步时，A拒绝了X的求爱，而第三个人M（萨夏·皮托夫[Sacha Pitoëff]饰）一直在旁观——他似乎是A的丈夫。
The film achieves its hypnotic force through repeated lines and situations, a time scheme that folds back on itself, and ominous, black-and-white wide-screen images that evoke both surrealist paintings (human figures cast long shadows, but not the decorative shrubbery that frames them) and the society dramas of silent film. (Ms. Seyrig is costumed to resemble the enigmatic silent star Louise Brooks.)
这部电影有一种催眠的力量，因为台词和场景不断重复，时间不断来回折返，不祥的黑白宽屏画面既让人想起了超现实主义油画（人物投下长长的影子，但是他们四周装饰性的灌木却没有），又让人想起了默片社会剧（塞里格的着装很像神秘的默片明星露易丝·布鲁克斯[Louise Brooks]）。
The film’s radical approach won both extravagant praise and harsh derision: the critic Pauline Kael dismissed it as “all solemn and expectant — like High Mass.” Mr. Resnais’s attitude was more amused.
这部电影激进的拍摄方式既赢得了过度赞美，也遭到了刻薄的嘲讽：批评家保林·凯尔(Pauline Kael)鄙视地说它“太严肃，一切都在意料之中，就像大弥撒。”雷奈的态度更有趣。
“I don’t believe it is really a riddle to be solved,” he told the television interviewer François Chalais. “Every spectator can find his own interpretation, and it’s likely to be the right one.”
“我觉得它不是个需要解开的谜题，”他告诉电视采访人弗朗索瓦·沙莱(François Chalais)，“每个观众都有自己的理解，每个人的理解都可能是对的。”
Mr. Resnais had a full head of white hair that the French newspaper Le Monde said he had sported for so long that one could forget he was ever young. He exhibited a youthful energy well into his 80s and was working on drafts of his next project from his hospital bed when he died, the producer Jean-Louis Livi said.
雷奈留着一头白发，法国《世界报》(Le Monde)说，他一直很活跃，人们几乎忘了他曾经年轻过。制片人让-露易斯·利维(Jean-Louis Livi)说，他八十多岁时还展现出年轻的活力，去世时还在病床上为下一部电影的脚本忙碌。
Despite the serious nature of his films, he showed a playful side in recent years and said he had found inspiration in Larry David’s “Curb Your Enthusiasm,” one of his favorite television shows. Another expression of his appreciation for “high” and “low” culture was his interest in cartoons. His 1989 movie, “I Want to Go Home,” was a comedy collaboration with Jules Feiffer, with whom he wrote the screenplay. He told a French interviewer that he wanted his work to have the effect of “désolation allègre” — “cheerful desolation.”
尽管他的影片本质上都很严肃，但是近些年他表现出幽默的一面，说自己在拉里·戴维(Larry David)的《抑制热情》(Curb Your Enthusiasm)中找到了灵感——那是他最喜欢的电视剧之一。他既欣赏“高雅”文化又欣赏“低俗”文化的另一个表现是对动画片的兴趣。他1989年的影片《我想回家》(I Want to Go Home)是和朱尔斯·费弗(Jules Feiffer)合作的喜剧片，剧本是他俩合写的。他告诉一位法国采访人他想让自己的电影具有“快乐的孤独”的效果。
Mr. Resnais was married twice. His first wife, Florence Malraux, was the daughter of the novelist André Malraux and worked as his assistant on many of his films from “Marienbad” to “Mélo.” They later divorced. His second wife, Sabine Azéma, who survives him, is an actress who appeared in many of his films.
雷奈结过两次婚。第一任妻子弗洛伦斯·马尔罗(Florence Malraux)是小说家安德烈·马尔罗(André Malraux)的女儿，在他的很多影片中担任助理，从《去年在马里昂巴德》到《几度春风几度霜》(Mélo)。他们后来离婚了。他的第二任妻子萨比娜·阿泽马(Sabine Azéma)是个女演员，出演过他的很多影片，仍然在世。
Mr. Resnais was born on June 3, 1922, in the village of Vannes, in Brittany, where his father was a pharmacist. He became fascinated by the movies as a child, and at 14 he directed his first film in eight millimeter, “L’Aventure de Guy,” now lost but said to have been inspired by Louis Feuillade’s crime serial “Fantômas.”
雷奈1922年6月3日出生在布列塔尼的瓦纳村，父亲是药剂师。他小时候就迷上了电影，14岁时导演了第一部8毫米胶片电影《盖伊的冒险》(L’Aventure de Guy)，这部电影现在已经遗失了，但是据说灵感来自路易斯·弗亚德(Louis Feuillade)的犯罪电视剧《方托马斯》(Fantômas)。
In 1939, he moved to Paris to study acting, and in 1942 he appeared as an extra in Marcel Carné’s Occupation allegory “Les Visiteurs du Soir.” When the French national film school, L’Institut des Hautes Études Cinématographiques, was founded in 1943, Mr. Resnais became a member of what would become the first graduating class.
1939年他搬到巴黎学表演，1942年他在马塞尔·卡尔内(Marcel Carné)的职业寓言故事《夜间来客》(Les Visiteurs du Soir)中担任临时演员。1943年，法国的国家级电影学院高级电影研究学院(L’Institut des Hautes Études Cinématographiques)成立，雷奈是第一批毕业生之一。
Mr. Resnais directed his first 16-millimeter short in 1946, a surrealist comedy titled “Schéma d’une Identification” (“Outline of an Identification”), and persuaded a neighbor, the matinee idol Gérard Philipe, to lend his name and presence to the project. He soon followed with a feature-length work, “Ouvert Pour Cause d’Inventaire” (“Open on Account of Inventory”). Both are now believed lost.
1946年雷奈导演了第一部16毫米胶片短片，那是一部超现实主义喜剧，名叫《身份概要》(Outline of an Identification)，他还劝说自己的邻居——万人迷热拉尔·菲利普(Gérard Philipe)——参与进来并饰演角色。之后他又很快推出了一部长片作品——《为了存货而开放》(Open on Account of Inventory)。人们普遍相信现在这两部影片都遗失了。
Mr. Resnais then threw himself into a series of short documentaries and sponsored films, including a 1947 homage to Nestlé’s powdered milk.
之后雷奈投入到一系列短纪录片和赞助电影中，包括1947年对雀巢奶粉的致敬片。
A 1948 film on Van Gogh impressed the producer Pierre Braunberger, who invited him to remake it in 35 millimeter. Works on a wide variety of subjects followed, but it was a 1955 synthesis of newly shot and newsreel footage that established Mr. Resnais’s reputation: “Night and Fog,” a quietly powerful exhortation to the French, and the world, to remember the Nazi death camps at a time when their horrors were fading into willed amnesia.
他1948年拍摄的《梵高》(Van Gogh)给制片人皮埃尔·布朗贝热(Braunberger)留下了深刻的印象，布朗贝热请他把它重拍成35毫米胶片的影片。他之后的作品涉及各种主题，但是给雷奈树立声望的是1955年的一部融合新拍镜头和新闻长镜头的影片，名叫《夜与雾》(Night and Fog)，它是对法国人和世界各国人的一种安静而有力的告诫，让人们不要忘记纳粹死亡集中营——当时集中营的恐怖正渐渐被有意遗忘。
After the international success of “Marienbad,” Mr. Resnais returned to the subject of suppressed historical trauma in 1963 with “Muriel,” a relatively straightforward drama about a middle-aged antiques dealer (Ms. Seyrig again) whose life has been warped as a distant consequence of the war in Algeria.
1963年，《去年在马里昂巴德》在国际上获得成功之后，雷奈回归到被压抑的历史创伤这个主题上，拍摄了《穆里爱》(Muriel)。这是一部相对直接的故事，讲述的是一位中年古董商（还是塞里格饰演）的生活被遥远的阿尔及利亚的战争打乱了。
Memory, with an increasingly complex use of montage to evoke the mind’s unpredictable associations, became the central subject of Mr. Resnais’s films: from “La Guerre Est Finie” (1966) to “Providence” (1977). Perhaps his most innovative film of this period was the 1968 “Je t’Aime Je t’Aime,” which used a time-travel premise to compose a complex series of enigmatic images and dramatic fragments spiraling through one man’s subjective experience of life.
回忆——通过使用更复杂的蒙太奇唤醒头脑中不可预测的联系——成为雷奈电影的中心主题：从《战争终了》(1966)到《天意》(Providence,1977)。他这一阶段最有创意的电影也许是1968年的《我爱你，我爱你》(Je t’Aime Je t’Aime)，它以时光旅行为前提，创造了盘旋在一个男人主观人生体验中的一系列复杂的神秘画面和戏剧化片段。