JERUSALEM — For months Israel called on President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority to break with Hamas, the Islamic group that controls Gaza, and to dismantle the new government that resulted from the reconciliation agreement.
耶路撒冷——几个月来，以色列呼吁巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)与控制加沙地带的伊斯兰组织哈马斯(Hamas)决裂，并解散和解协议产生的新政府。
That April deal scuttled the American-backed Middle East negotiations as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu repeatedly declared, “Whoever chooses the terrorism of Hamas does not want peace.”
今年4月的那个协议破坏了美国支持的中东谈判，当时以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)一再宣称“选择哈马斯恐怖主义的人，都是不希望和平的人。”
But Mr. Abbas is making a comeback as a major player in the Egyptian-mediated talks in Cairo to end the latest war in Gaza, and he is emerging as a potential linchpin for Israel, Egypt and Hamas as they seek new and lasting arrangements for that Palestinian coastal enclave.
但是，在由埃及斡旋的、旨在结束加沙近期战事的会谈中，阿巴斯作为一个重要参与者再度现身；以色列、埃及和哈马斯正在为这个沿海的巴勒斯坦人聚居区寻求新的持久性安排，对于他们来说，阿巴斯可能正在成为一个非常关键的角色。
Israel has no direct dealings with Hamas, which refuses to recognize Israel’s right to exist, and Egypt under President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi has turned hostile to the group. So Mr. Netanyahu told reporters here last week that cooperation with the West Bank-based Palestinian Authority was “important” for the reconstruction of Gaza and the flow of humanitarian aid. He praised the authority for helping coordinate the second 72-hour cease-fire, which held for another day on Tuesday. And he has dropped his public condemnations of the Palestinian government.
以色列和哈马斯之间不会直接对话，因为哈马斯不承认以色列存在的权利，而埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)已经变得对哈马斯怀有敌意。所以内塔尼亚胡上周在这里告诉记者，对于加沙重建和人道主义援助物资的流动来说，与西岸地区的巴勒斯坦民族权力机构合作很“重要”。他称赞巴勒斯坦民族权力机构帮助协调了第二次72小时的停火。本周二，这个停火期仍在持续。而且内塔尼亚胡也没有再公开谴责这个巴勒斯坦政府。
“Things have changed, don’t you agree?” Yair Lapid, Israel’s finance minister and the leader of the government’s second-largest party, Yesh Atid, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday.
“情况变了，不是吗？”以色列财政部长、政府第二大党未来党(Yesh Atid Party)领导者亚伊尔·拉皮德(Yair Lapid)在本周二的电话采访中说。
“One of the problems we had with what they called the technocratic government was that everyone felt Hamas was too strong and might take over,” Mr. Lapid said. “Hamas has weakened since then, both militarily and policywise.”
“针对他们所说的技术官僚政府，我们之前觉得有一些问题，其中一个就是，大家都觉得哈马斯太强，可能会接管权力，”拉比德说，“自那以后，哈马斯在军事和政治上都走了下坡路。”
If Israel had worried before that the Palestinian reconciliation government supported by Hamas was “a tool for Hamas to go to the West Bank, now it can be a tool for bringing the West Bank to Gaza,” he added.
如果说以色列之前曾担心，哈马斯支持的巴勒斯坦和解政府是其争取约旦河西岸的工具，现在它则可以成为把约旦河西岸的局面带到加沙的一个工具，”他说。
Udi Dekel, a former lead Israeli negotiator with the Palestinians who is now a research fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv, said that most of the Israeli government supported this idea of “turning the reconciliation inside out.”
乌迪·德克尔(Udi Dekel)曾参加过巴以谈判，是以色列方面的首席谈判人，现在在位于特拉维夫的以色列国家安全研究院(Institute for National Security Studies)担任研究员，他说，以色列政府里的大多数人都支持“把和解从里到外翻个面儿”的想法。
“The direction, without saying it loud and clear, is that Israel is reconciling itself to the reconciliation and trying to reap some benefits,” Mr. Dekel said.
“虽然没有清楚响亮地说出来，但方向就是以色列要与和解政府和解，设法获取一些利益，”德克尔说。
Evidence of a change in Israeli policy came with the arrival of Ziad Abu Amr, the deputy prime minister of the Palestinian Authority, in Gaza on Tuesday. Mr. Abu Amr said that the Israelis had repeatedly denied him a travel permit from the West Bank during the fighting, but that word came around 10 a.m. that he could enter Gaza through Israel’s Erez crossing.
以色列政策有所变化，证据就是巴勒斯坦民族权力机构副总理齐亚德·阿布·阿姆鲁(Ziad Abu Amr)本周二抵达加沙。阿姆鲁说，以色列人在交火期间曾多次拒绝他从约旦河西岸前往加沙地带，但周二上午10点左右，消息传来，他可以通过以色列的埃雷兹检查站进入加沙。
“I hope the Israelis are changing their mind and lifting the ban on the national reconciliation government,” he said in an interview. “I think Cairo is having a sobering effect. It’s going to bring everyone back to see reality and to be realistic.”
“我希望以色列正在改变主意，取消对民族和解政府的禁令，”他在接受采访时说。“我觉得开罗会谈令人变得理智，让每个人都重新审视现实，采取一种实事求是的态度。”
Mr. Lapid and other centrist ministers have put forward their own plans in recent days for an ambitious new order, including the restoration of Palestinian Authority control in Gaza. That ended in 2007, when Hamas routed Mr. Abbas’s forces, leading to a bitter seven-year schism between the Palestinian factions.
最近几天，拉比德和其他几位温和派的部长提出了自己的计划，希望建立一个雄心勃勃的新秩序，其中包括让巴勒斯坦民族权力机构重新控制加沙地带。2007年时，哈马斯打败了阿巴斯的部队，不仅结束了该政府对加沙的统治，也开始了巴勒斯坦各派别之间长达七年的仇视和分裂。
But Mr. Abbas remains politically weak among his people, and few of the Israeli ministers have an immediate prescription for restoring his rule in Gaza, beyond allowing the Palestinian Authority’s forces to supervise the Rafah border crossing between Gaza and Egypt. In addition, the fractious Israeli government coalition remains divided on the broader issue of peace and, some critics said, appears to lack any unified vision. The fact that several ministers have put forward plans “means the government has no plan,” Mr. Dekel said.
但阿巴斯在巴勒斯坦人中的政治地位依然脆弱，以色列的部长们几乎没有立竿见影的办法来恢复他在加沙地带的统治，最多只是让巴勒斯坦民族权力机构的部队监督加沙地带和埃及之间的拉法边境通道。此外，对于更加广泛的和平问题，容易发生争执的以色列联合政府也仍然存在分歧，一些评论家说，这个联合政府似乎没在任何愿景上达成一致。几位部长分别提出计划这件事本身，就“意味着政府没有计划”，德克尔说。
Hamas has demanded the lifting of the economic blockade of Gaza, an expansion of the permitted fishing zone in the Mediterranean, a new seaport, the reconstruction of Gaza’s airport and the release of Palestinian prisoners, possibly in exchange for the remains of Israeli soldiers killed in the recent fighting.
哈马斯要求解除对加沙的经济封锁、扩大在地中海的捕鱼区、开通一个新的港口、重建加沙机场，并且释放巴勒斯坦囚犯。最后一项可能是用来换取最近的战斗中阵亡的以色列士兵的遗体。
Israel backs the idea of an internationally financed reconstruction package for Gaza funneled through Mr. Abbas, to enable supervision and bolster his influence and standing among the Palestinians. Israel also wants measures to prevent Hamas from rearming.
以色列支持国际社会通过阿巴斯资助加沙重建的一揽子计划，以便监督加沙，并增进阿巴斯在巴勒斯坦人中的影响力和地位。以色列还希望采取一些措施，来防止哈马斯重获武装。