KABUL, Afghanistan — Their campaign workers traded blows over ballot boxes during an election widely seen as fraudulent. Some of the warlords backing them have muttered about starting a parallel government, a potential recipe for civil war in Afghanistan. And they've just come out of an election so discredited that some officials don't want the final tallies announced.
阿富汗喀布尔——他们参加的选举被广泛视为舞弊丛生，他们手下的竞选工作者就票箱作弊问题互相攻击。支持他们的一些军事势力有意创建一个平行政府，而那可能会引发阿富汗内战。他们的选举在不久前结束了。但面对如此名誉扫地的一次选举，一些官员甚至不愿最后的计票结果获得公布。
Now Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai, Afghanistan's new president-elect, and his opponent, Abdullah Abdullah, have joined together in a national unity government in which they will share power.
现在，阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai)当选阿富汗新任总统，而他的对手阿卜杜拉·阿卜杜拉(Abdullah Abdullah)，将成为民族团结政府的一员，与他分享权力。
After eight months of enmity over the protracted presidential election, with two rounds of voting, an international audit and power-sharing negotiations finally behind them, they will have to confront the challenges of jointly governing a country that in many ways is far worse off than it was before the election campaign began last February.
久拖不决的总统选举、两轮投票、八个月的敌意，以及一场国际审查和权力分享谈判，现在终于告一段落，两人将不得不面对联合执政阿富汗的挑战；从很多方面来说，这个国家的现状都远远不如今年2月竞选开始之前。
The Taliban have had one of their most successful fighting seasons since the beginning of the war. The Afghan economy is battered by election uncertainty and rising unemployment, and in desperate need of emergency financing.
在军事方面，过去这段时期是塔利班自战争开始以来最成功的一段时间。而选举的不确定性又对阿富汗经济造成了打击，该国失业率上升，紧急融资刻不容缓。
But both Ahmadzai and Abdullah are expected to bring a welcome change from the confrontational relationship between the incumbent, President Hamid Karzai, and his U.S. allies.
不过，加尼和阿卜杜拉都有望带来一个可喜的变化，那就是现任总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)和美国盟友之间的紧张关系或将得到改善。
The agreement forming the new government, brokered by Secretary of State John Kerry, who led an intense diplomatic effort over the past month, makes Abdullah or his nominee the chief executive officer of the government, with the sort of powers a prime minister normally has. While reporting to the president, the chief executive officer will handle the daily running of the government. At the same time, Ahmadzai keeps all the powers granted to the president by the Afghan Constitution.
在过去一个月中，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)领导开展了深入的外交行动，在他的斡旋下，双方达成了组成新政府的协议。根据这份协议，阿卜杜拉或由他指认的某人将成为政府中的行政长官，获得总理通常拥有的权力。虽然需要向总统报告，但行政长官将负责政府的日常运作。而加尼则拥有阿富汗宪法赋予总统的所有权力。
At a brief ceremony Sunday, the two men signed the power-sharing agreement in front of Karzai and their top supporters. They hugged one another stiffly afterward, to decidedly tepid applause. Both failed to show up for a planned joint news conference on Sunday, sending spokesmen instead.
周日，在一个简短的仪式上，两人当着卡尔扎伊及各自最重要支持者的面，签署了权力分享协议。之后，他们姿势僵硬地拥抱对方，周围响起了明显是相当稀疏的掌声。周日本来安排了联合新闻发布会，但两人都没有露面，各自派了发言人上场。
While Ahmadzai and Abdullah have known one another for many years, having served together in various positions in the Afghan governments under Karzai, they have long had relations widely described as strained.
虽然加尼和阿卜杜拉已经相识多年，曾在不同的岗位上，一起为卡尔扎伊的阿富汗政府效力，但两人之间的关系被广泛地描述为长期处于“紧张”状态。