King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who came to the throne in old age and earned a reputation as a cautious reformer even as the Arab Spring revolts toppled heads of state and Islamic State militants threatened the Muslim establishment that he represented, died, Saudi officials said Friday. He was 90.
沙特官员表示，该国国王阿卜杜拉(King Abdullah)本周五去世，享年90岁。阿卜杜拉登基时年事已高，即便是阿拉伯之春运动推翻多国首脑，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子对他代表的穆斯林当权派构成威胁的时候，他仍然赢得了“谨慎的改革者”的声誉。
The cause was unknown. He had been in the hospital since December and placed on a respirator.
阿卜杜拉的死因尚未披露。他从去年12月开始住院，并借助呼吸器维持呼吸。
Succession was swift. Abdullah’s brother and crown prince, Salman, in a statement attributed to him on Saudi state television, announced the king’s death and that he had assumed the throne.
王位继承过程相当迅速。阿卜杜拉的弟弟、王储萨尔曼(Salman)在沙特国家电视台发表专门声明，宣布国王过世，自己已经继承了王位。
The royal court, in an announcement quoted by the official Saudi Press Agency, said the king had a lung infection when he was admitted on Dec. 31 to the Riyadh hospital named for his father, Abdul Aziz, who through conquest and multiple marriages forged the desert kingdom in the years after the destruction of the Ottoman Empire.
官方的沙特通讯社(Saudi Press Agency)援引王宫办公厅的一份公告称，国王由于肺部感染，于12月31日进入以他父亲阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹(Abdul Aziz)的名字命名的利雅得医院。其父通过征服和多次联姻，在奥斯曼帝国灭亡后组建了这个沙漠王国。
Accidents of birth and geology made Abdullah one of the world’s wealthiest and most powerful men. In control of a fifth of the world’s known petroleum reserves, he traveled to medical appointments abroad in a fleet of jumbo jets, and the changes he wrought in Saudi society were fueled by gushers of oil money.
由于家庭出身和地理因素，阿卜杜拉成为了世界上最富有和最有权势的人物之一。世界上已知石油储量的五分之一都在他的控制之下，他前往国外看病时会出动大型喷气式客机机队，他给沙特社会带来的变化得益于石油方面的巨大收入。
As king he also bore the title of custodian of Islam’s holiest mosques, in Mecca and Medina, making him one of the faith’s most important figures.
伊斯兰教一些最神圣的清真寺位于麦加和麦地那，作为国王，阿卜杜拉也拥有这些清真寺的守护者头衔，因此，他也成为了这种信仰中最重要的人物之一。
Abdullah had grown accustomed to wielding the levers of power long before his ascension to the throne in August 2005. After his predecessor, King Fahd, a half brother, had a stroke in November 1995, Abdullah, then the crown prince, ruled in the king’s name.
阿卜杜拉在2005年8月登基之前已经深谙权力运用之道，上任国王法赫德(King Fahd)是他同父异母的兄弟，于1995年11月中风，时任王储的阿卜杜拉此后就开始借国王的名义统治国家。
Yet Abdullah spoke as plainly as the Bedouin tribesmen with whom he had been sent to live in his youth. He refused to be called “your majesty” and discouraged commoners from kissing his hand. He shocked the 7,000 or so Saudi princes and princesses by cutting their allowances. He was described as ascetic, or as ascetic as someone in the habit of renting out entire hotels could be.
阿卜杜拉说起话来朴实无华，就像贝都因部落成员那样，他年轻时曾被送去与他们生活在一起。他不让人们称自己为“陛下”，不鼓励平民亲吻他的手。他还削减了约7000名沙特王子和公主的津贴，令他们震惊。他被形容为生活清苦，当然这是指习惯包下整家酒店的人可以达到的那种程度的清苦。
Abdullah’s reign was a constant effort to balance desert traditions with the demands of the modern world, making him appear at times to be shifting from one to the other.
在统治沙特期间，阿卜杜拉不断对沙漠传统与现代世界的要求加以平衡，因此有时候显得从一边转向了另一边。
When popular movements and insurgencies overthrew or threatened long-established Arab rulers from Tunisia to Yemen in 2011, he reacted swiftly.
2011年，从突尼斯到也门，民众运动和叛乱活动推翻了长期掌权的阿拉伯统治者，或者形成了这种威胁，阿卜杜拉迅速做出了回应。
On his return from three months of treatment for a herniated disk and a blood clot in New York and Morocco, his government spent $130 billion to build 500,000 units of low-income housing, to bolster the salaries of government employees and to ensure the loyalty of religious organizations.
因为椎间盘突出和血栓，他在纽约和摩洛哥治疗了三个月，当他一回到沙特，他的政府就拿出1300亿美元，用于为低收入者建造50万套保障性住房，提高政府雇员的工资，以及保证宗教组织的忠诚度。
He also created a Facebook page, where citizens were invited to present their grievances directly to him, although it was not known how many entries actually reached him.
他还让人创建了一个Facebook页面，邀请公民直接向他讲述自己的不满，虽然不清楚有多少内容真的传到了他那里。
But in at least two telephone calls he castigated President Obama for encouraging democracy in the Middle East, saying it was dangerous. And he showed no tolerance in his country for the sort of dissent unfolding elsewhere.
但对于奥巴马总统对中东民主运动的鼓励，他至少在两通电话中进行了抨击，说这很危险。他绝不容忍沙特出现在其他地方展开的那种异见活动。
The grand mufti, the kingdom’s highest religious official, proclaimed that Islam forbade street protests. Scores of protesters who failed to heed that message were arrested in the chiefly Shiite eastern provinces. A new law imposed crippling fines for offenses, like threatening national security, that could be broadly interpreted.
该国最高宗教官员大穆夫提宣称，伊斯兰教禁止街头抗议。在以什叶派为主的东部省份，不少人无视这条讯息，仍然上街抗议，结果被捕。该国还颁布了一项新法律，对一些罪行处以高额罚款，比如威胁国家安全罪，而它的解释可以非常宽泛。
Reaching beyond his borders, Abdullah sent tanks to help quell an uprising in neighboring Bahrain.
阿卜杜拉的行动超出了本国边界，他派出坦克，帮助平息了邻国巴林的起义。
Abdullah’s Saudi Arabia had hurtled from tribal pastoralism to advanced capitalism in little more than a generation. The fundamentalist clerics who gave the family legitimacy remained a powerful force. Women who appeared in public without the required covering risked arrest or a beating from the religious police.
在短短数十年中，阿卜杜拉统治下的沙特阿拉伯已经从部落牧畜社会大步迈向了先进的资本主义社会。让王室具有合法性的原教旨主义神职人员仍然是一股强大势力。妇女出现在公众场所时如果未按要求遮掩自己，就会遭到逮捕或宗教警察的殴打。
Abdullah did make changes that were seen as important in the Saudi context. He allowed women to work as supermarket cashiers and appointed a woman as a deputy minister. At the $12.5 billion research university he built and named for himself, women study beside men.
阿卜杜拉确实给沙特带来了一些重大变化。他允许妇女当超市收银员，并任命了一名女性副部长。他斥资125亿美元，修建了一所以自己名字命名的研究型大学，女性可以在这里和男性并肩学习。
However, he did not fulfill a promise made to Barbara Walters of ABC News in his first televised interview as king in October 2005: that he would allow women to drive, a hugely contentious issue in Saudi Arabia.
不过，有一个承诺他没有履行。那是2005年10月，他登基后接受第一次电视采访时，对ABC新闻的芭芭拉·沃尔特斯(Barbara Walters)承诺：他会允许妇女开车，这在沙特阿拉伯是一个争议很大的问题。
Although he ordered the kingdom’s first elections for municipal councils in 2005, a promised second election, in October 2009, in which women would vote, was postponed until September 2011. Then in March of that year, the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs announced that the question of women voting would be put off indefinitely “because of the kingdom’s social customs.”
他2005年下令，让该国进行首次市议会选举，并承诺在2009年10月的第二次选举中，可以让妇女参加投票，但新选举最终被推迟到2011年9月。而且到了那年3月，城乡事务部(Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs)宣布，“因为本国社会风俗问题”，女性投票权将被无限期延迟。
Abdullah’s greatest legacy, however, may prove to be a scholarship program that sent tens of thousands of young Saudi men and women abroad to study at Western universities and colleges. It has been suggested that the changes long resisted by conservative forces — resistance that even a king could not overcome — would one day come about as those young men and women rose in the government, industry and academia.
然而，时间可能会证明，一个将数以万计的沙特年轻男女送到西方国家的大学和学院学习的奖学金计划，也许才是阿卜杜拉最大的政治遗产。有人说，保守势力长期抵制一些变化，即使国王也无能为力，但当这些青年男女成为政府、产业界和学术界的中坚力量时，变化就会出现。
Perhaps Abdullah’s most daunting challenge arrived in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, with the revelation that 15 of the 19 hijackers were Saudis. The royal family at first railed at what it called a vicious public relations campaign against the kingdom, then ruthlessly suppressed known militants — not least because the monarchy itself was a main target of Al Qaeda.
阿卜杜拉经历过的最严峻挑战也许就是2001年9月11日恐怖袭击之后的一段时间，当时的19名劫机者有15名都是沙特人。王室起初的反应是进行指责，称这是针对该国的恶性公关活动，然后该国冷酷镇压被发现的武装分子——尤其是因为该王国本身就是基地组织的主要攻击目标。
A Rigorous Upbringing
严格的教养
Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz al-Saud was born in Riyadh in 1924 into a vast, complicated family. His father, Abdul Aziz, had many as 22 wives.
阿卜杜拉·本·阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹·沙特(Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz al-Saud)1924年出生在利雅得一个复杂的庞大家庭中。他父亲阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹(Abdul Aziz)拥有多达22位妻子。
Abdul Aziz, whose ancestors founded a precursor to the present Saudi state in 1744, chose his wives partly to secure alliances with other Arabian tribes. Abdullah’s mother, Fahda bint Asi al-Shuraim, was a daughter of the chief of the Shammar, whose influence extended into Syria, Iraq and Jordan.
阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹的祖先在1744年创立了目前沙特国的前身，在选择妻子时，他在一定程度上要考虑到如何巩固与其他阿拉伯部落的联盟。阿卜杜拉的母亲法赫达·宾特·阿西·苏拉穆(Fahda bint Asi al-Shuraim)是舍麦尔酋长的女儿，舍麦尔的影响力远及叙利亚、伊拉克和约旦。
Abdullah was Fahda’s only son. She also had two daughters.
阿卜杜拉是法赫达唯一的儿子。她还生了两个女儿。
Four of Abdullah’s half brothers preceded him to the throne.
阿卜杜拉有四位同父异母的兄弟王位继承顺位在他之前。
King Khalid appointed Abdullah as second deputy prime minister in 1975. In 1982, Fahd, Khalid’s successor, named him deputy prime minister and crown prince.
哈立德国王(King Khalid)于1975年任命阿卜杜拉为第二副首相。1982年，哈立德的继任者法赫德任命他为副总理兼王储。
After Fahd’s stroke, Abdullah ran the government at first as regent. Political pressures later forced the removal of the regent title, but Abdullah remained the effective decision-maker until assuming the throne in 2005. He refused to sign any official papers with his own name as long as his stricken brother lived. Fahd died on Aug. 1, 2005.
法赫德中风后，阿卜杜拉起初以摄政王的身份主政。但后来在政治压力下，取消了摄政王头衔，不过阿卜杜拉仍然是实际上的决策者，直到2005年正式登基。只要中风的兄弟还在王位上，他就拒绝在任何官方文件上签署自己的名字。法赫德于2005年8月1日去世。
In line with Islamic law, Abdullah kept no more than four wives at once, and was married at least 13 times, according to Joseph Kechichian, who studies the royal family as a senior fellow at the King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies in Riyadh.
在利雅得费萨尔国王研究和伊斯兰学中心(King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies)担任高级研究员的王室研究者约瑟夫·克奇安(Joseph Kechichian)说：阿卜杜拉遵循伊斯兰法，同时拥有的妻子不超过四位，但他结了至少13次婚。
Abdullah fathered at least seven sons, nearly all of whom have occupied powerful positions as provincial governors and officers in the national guard, Dr. Kechichian said. Of his 15 known daughters, one is a prominent physician, and another has appeared on television to advocate for women’s rights.
阿卜杜拉至少有七个儿子，几乎全都占据着省长、国民警卫队官员这样的要职，克奇安博士说。他有15个公开承认的女儿，其中一个是著名的医生，另一个曾在电视上拥护妇女权利。