KABUL, Afghanistan — Months of fraught negotiations and public posturing over how a long-term American military force could remain in Afghanistan have suddenly come down to a demand for a single personal gesture: a display of contrition by President Obama for military mistakes that have hurt Afghans.
阿富汗喀布尔——在美军如何可以长驻阿富汗的问题上，数月的紧张谈判与公开摆架势最终突然归结到了一项针对某种个人姿态的要求上：奥巴马总统应为伤害阿富汗人的军事错误表达悔意。
Afghan officials said Tuesday that in return for such a letter from Mr. Obama, President Hamid Karzai would end his vehement opposition to American counterterrorism raids on private Afghan homes — one of the most contentious issues between allies over a costly dozen-year war — clearing the way for an agreement to keep a smaller American troop force in the country past the 2014 withdrawal deadline.
阿富汗官方周二表示，这样一封来自奥巴马的信件，将换来哈米德·卡尔扎伊总统(Hamid Karzai)收回对美国反恐突袭阿富汗私宅的强烈反对，从而为2014年美军撤军时限后保持小规模部队在阿富汗留驻的协议扫清障碍。在这场代价高昂的12年战争中，突袭私宅一直是两个盟国之间争议最大的问题之一。
As described by Mr. Karzai’s spokesman, Aimal Faizi, the letter would be tantamount to an apology, though he did not use that word. But not even that would be enough to ensure the final passage of a security agreement the United States had pressed to have in hand before next year. The Afghans have made final approval subject to an Afghan grand council of elders, a loya jirga, that is to begin meeting on Thursday, and aspects of the security deal remain deeply unpopular with the public.
根据卡尔扎伊的发言人艾马尔·法伊兹(Aimal Faizi)的描述，这封信将等同于道歉，尽管他并未使用这样的字眼。不过，就算有这封信，也不足以保证美国力促在新年之前达成的安全协议能最后获得通过。阿富汗方面把最终批准与否交由定于周四开始的大支尔格会议——长老组成的大国民会议——来定夺，而且，这一安全协议中的某些方面让民众极其反感。
The White House spokesman, Jay Carney, would not confirm details on Tuesday, but he nodded to the potential deal-breaking potential of the meeting. “There are ongoing negotiations,” he said. “I would simply say this agreement is not reached until it goes through the loya jirga.”
周二的时候，白宫新闻发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)拒绝确认其间的细节，但认同大会可能会具有破坏协议的能力。“谈判还在进行，”他说。“我只能说，在大支尔格会议审议前，协议不算达成。”
The 11th-hour discussions were the latest lurch in a start-and-stop negotiation process that has exposed raw feelings between allies, and has also highlighted Mr. Karzai’s taste for public brinkmanship.
谈判进程时断时续，而在第11个小时的磋商中则出现了最新的转折。整个谈判过程不仅让两个盟国暴露了真实的情感，还突显了卡尔扎伊对公开边缘政策的喜好。
Just two days ago, Afghan officials said that the raid issue had created a stubborn impasse.
就在两天之前，阿富汗官方还宣称，袭击私宅问题构成了一个死结。
Afghan and American officials said that the potential for breakthrough was opened by a phone call from Secretary of State John Kerry to Mr. Karzai on Tuesday.
美阿两国的官员表示，突破的可能性始于国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周二给卡尔扎伊打的一通电话。
According to Mr. Faizi, Mr. Kerry offered to write a letter assuring the importance of an agreement and acknowledging American mistakes, and Mr. Karzai issued a counteroffer: he would compromise if the letter was from Mr. Obama instead. Mr. Faizi said Mr. Kerry agreed to those terms.
法伊兹称，克里提出写一封信来强调协议的重要性并承认美国犯下的错误，于是卡尔扎伊也提出了自己的建议：如果换成奥巴马写信的话，他就会妥协。法伊兹还说，克里同意了这些条件。
But Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser, flatly denied in an interview with CNN on Tuesday night that there would be any presidential apology. “No such letter has been drafted or delivered,” Ms. Rice said. “There is not a need for the United States to apologize to Afghanistan. Quite the contrary. We have sacrificed and supported them in their democratic progress and in tackling the insurgency and Al Qaeda.”
可是，国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)周二晚间接受CNN采访时断然否认总统会做出任何道歉。“没有起草或发出过任何这样的信，”赖斯说。“美国没有必要向阿富汗道歉。正好相反。我们作出了牺牲，支持他们的民主进程，支持他们应对叛乱问题和基地组织(Al Qaeda)。”
A senior State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss continuing negotiations, was more noncommittal, saying that a letter acknowledging past issues like civilian casualties was a possibility being weighed. “We will consider his request for reassurances, including the option of a letter from the administration stating our position,” the official said.
国务院一名高级官员的说法则更为含糊，将承认平民伤亡等历史问题的信件称为正在权衡的选项之一。“我们将考虑他提出的保证要求，包括奥巴马政府写一封信阐述我方立场的可能性，”这名官员称。由于涉及仍在进行的谈判，此人要求不公开姓名。
Under the Afghan description, in return for the letter, Mr. Karzai would then accept wording that allowed American Special Operations raids to search and detain militants within Afghan homes, but only under “extraordinary circumstances” to save the lives of American soldiers. That would seem to greatly hamper the American intent behind those operations, which commanders have said are critical to taking the fight directly to Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups.
按照阿富汗方面的描述，作为信件的交换，卡尔扎伊将接受协议中出现允许美国特种作战部队对阿富汗私宅实施突袭以搜寻并拘捕激进分子的措辞，但仅限于拯救美军士兵的“特殊情况”。如果是这样，美国这些行动背后的动机看来会面临巨大的威胁。一些军事将领称，这些行动对直接打击基地组织等恐怖团体来说至关重要。
Among members of the Afghan public, though, foreign raids on private homes are seen as deeply offensive, and the prospect of continued American commando operations after 2014 is unlikely to receive a warm reception from the roughly 3,000 delegates to the loya jirga.
不过，在阿富汗民众看来，外国人突袭私宅是巨大的冒犯。2014年后美军继续采取突击行动的前景，也不太可能会受到大支尔格会议约3000名代表的热烈欢迎。
But Mr. Faizi said that a letter from Mr. Obama would help win critics over. And Afghan political observers have noted that Mr. Karzai, who despite his harsh negotiation tactics has repeatedly mentioned the importance of a lasting security deal with the United States, had the power of approval over the delegate list, making it more likely he could sway the council.
但是法伊兹称，一封来自奥巴马的信将有助于争取批评者的支持。阿富汗政坛观察人士也指出，尽管卡尔扎伊采取了强硬的谈判策略，但他反复提及了与美国签订长久安全协议的重要性，而且他有权批准大会代表的名单，从而更可能左右大会的结果。
Mr. Faizi made it clear that the Afghans had a very detailed understanding of what they expected a letter from Mr. Obama to say, and without that there would be no deal.
法伊兹直言，阿富汗人非常清楚他们希望从奥巴马信中看到什么样的具体内容，倘若没有这些，协议就达不成。
Afghan officials said they expected to see the text of the letter by Wednesday before Mr. Karzai signs off on the security agreement.
阿富汗官方宣称，他们希望，在卡尔扎伊同意安全协议以前，能在周三结束前看到信件文本。
With one day remaining to finalize the wording of the security agreement before the loya jirga meets, Mr. Faizi said that was the remaining issue in talks. “The rest, everything is solved,” he said.
大支尔格会议召开之前，只有一天时间来最后敲定安全协议的措辞。法伊兹表示，谈判中仅剩的问题就是这封信。“剩下的，全都已经解决了，”他说。
He also said that the Afghan side had agreed to acquiesce on another sticking point: the American requirement that the United States retain legal jurisdiction over its soldiers in Afghanistan. In essence, that would make United States military personnel immune to Afghan prosecution for their actions in the country, though they would remain subject to American prosecution.
他还称，阿方已同意在另一个关键性问题上让步：美方要求，自己保有对驻阿美军士兵的司法管辖权。实际上，这将使得美国军人不会因为在阿富汗的行动而在该国遭到起诉，尽管他们仍将受制于美国的司法。
A similar requirement led to the collapse of talks with Iraq to establish a long-term security deal, and an immediate final withdrawal of American troops from that country in 2011.
类似的要求曾导致美国与伊拉克就签署长期安全协议而进行的谈判破裂，并导致美军随即于2011年全部撤离伊拉克。
In recent weeks, American officials have mentioned that the result in Iraq could be duplicated, and that the 2014 military withdrawal from Afghanistan could be made complete and final if their terms on home raids and legal jurisdiction were not met.
最近几周里，有美国官员提到，伊拉克的结局可能重演。假如他们在突袭私宅和司法管辖权上的条件没有得到满足，2014年从阿富汗的撤军就可能会是完全而彻底的。