The Food and Drug Administration plans to loosen the rules for approving new treatments for Alzheimer’s disease.
美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）计划放松对阿尔茨海默症新疗法的审批限制。
Drugs in clinical trial would qualify for approval if people at very early stages of the disease subtly improved their performance on memory or reasoning tests, even before they developed any obvious impairments. Companies would not have to show that the drugs improved daily, real-world functioning.
如果能让尚未表现出明显损伤的阿尔茨海默症初期患者在记忆力测试或推理测试中的表现有微弱改善，处于临床试验阶段的药物就有资格获得批准。企业不必证明药物改善了患者在现实生活中的日常机能。
For more than a decade, the only way to get Alzheimer’s drugs to market was with studies showing that they improved a patient’s ability not only to think and remember, but also to function day to day at activities like feeding, dressing or bathing themselves.
十多年来，阿尔茨海默症药物获得市场准入的唯一途径是通过研究表明，这些药物不仅提高了患者的思考和记忆能力，还日复一日地改善了他们自己吃饭、穿衣、洗澡或从事其他日常活动的能力。
The proposal, published online Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine, could help millions of people at risk of developing the disease by speeding the development and approval of drugs that might slow or prevent it.
周三发布在《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)的网站上的这一提议，能够加速对可能减缓或预防该病的药物的研发和批准，由此帮助数以百万计可能罹患此症的人。
The proposed policy could also be a boon for the pharmaceutical industry and researchers. They have often felt stymied by regulations that left them uncertain of how to get drugs tested and approved for marketing to people early in the course of Alzheimer’s, when the medications are most likely to be useful.
这一政策建议对制药业和研究人员也会是一个好消息。他们常常觉得自己受到了监管措施的阻碍，这些措施让他们不确定如何能让药物得到测试，如何获准向阿尔茨海默症早期患者推销这些药物，而患病早期是药物治疗最有可能起作用的时候。
Several studies are being planned for people at high risk of developing Alzheimer’s, and the proposed regulations should lead to even more clinical trials, said Dr. P. Murali Doraiswamy, an Alzheimer’s researcher and professor of psychiatry at Duke University School of Medicine.
杜克大学(Duke University)医学院精神病学教授、阿尔茨海默症研究人员P·穆拉利·多雷斯瓦米(P. Murali Doraiswamy)博士表示，针对易患阿尔茨海默症的高危人群的几项研究已在计划之中，而前述监管提议应该能催生更多的临床试验。
“There is more motivation now to invest in the field,” Dr. Doraiswamy said. But, he added, the proposal also comes with risks.
“如今，向这个领域投资的积极性更高了，”多雷斯瓦米博士说。但他补充说，这一提议也伴随着风险。
The F.D.A. would require companies to study the drugs after they were on the market to show they actually benefited patients. But these studies might not be randomized clinical trials and so would not be as rigorous as the studies that led to approval. Even with less rigorous studies, it might be hard to get the evidence, Dr. Doraiswamy said.
FDA会要求企业在药物上市后对药物进行研究，表明它们真的让患者受益了。但这些研究可能不是随机的临床试验，因此也不会像那些让药物获得批准的研究那么严格。多雷斯瓦米博士说，即使有了这些不那么严格的研究，可能也很难获得证据。
“A lot of companies drag their feet and never do a postmarketing study,” he said. Even if they do one, it may take years to find out whether a drug works. Meanwhile, millions of people may be taking it, at great expense.
他说，“许多公司拖拖拉拉，从来都不进行上市后研究。”即便它们做了研究，也可能要花费多年才能得出某种药是否有效的结论。与此同时，无数患者却可能已经在花大价钱服用这种药。
The agency is trying to resolve a quandary with its new policy: How can you show a drug works if patients are so early in the course of the disease that they have no obvious deterioration in their cognitive abilities or daily functioning?
FDA正寻求用新政策解决一个难题：如果患者处在发病的最初阶段，其认知能力和日常机能并没有发生明显的退化，怎样才能判定某种药物是否有效呢？
In draft guidelines to the industry last month, the agency outlined a way to resolve the problem by changing the criteria for drug approval. Those at a very early stage of the disease, with no obvious symptoms, could be studied with cognitive tests. Those with mild symptoms could have a combined test of function and cognition.
在上个月发布的行业指导草案中，FDA通过改变批准药物的标准给出了解决问题的一种方案。没有明显症状的初期患者可以通过认知测试来进行研究，已有轻微症状的患者则可以参加机能和认知混合测试。
With the draft guidelines, the agency is soliciting comments from the public and industry and may make revisions, said a spokeswoman, Sandy Walsh. But, she added, “we are ready to move forward with the plan.”
FDA发言人桑迪·沃尔什 (Sandy Walsh)称，该机构公布草案的目的是征求公众和制药业的意见，并可能据此进行修改。不过，她还说，“我们准备推进这一方案。”
In the paper published on Wednesday, the agency aimed to explain its perspective to a wider audience. “Our goal was to provide as much regulatory clarity as possible,” said Dr. Nicholas Kozauer, a clinical team leader in the agency’s division of neurology products. “We would encourage companies to start thinking along these lines.”
FDA周三公布的文件旨在向广大公众解释机构的立场。FDA神经学产品部门的临床团队负责人尼古拉斯·科绍尔博士(Nicholas Kozauer)表示，“我们的目标是为监管提供尽可能高的清晰度。我们鼓励企业按这个思路进行思考。”
Companies and researchers were elated, saying the old regulations had hobbled the field.
企业和研究人员喜出望外，并称旧规定一直让本领域徘徊不前。
“This is really a huge advance,” said Dr. Eric Siemers, senior medical director for the Alzheimer’s disease team at Eli Lilly & Company. “Kudos to the F.D.A.”
礼来公司(Eli Lilly & Company)的阿尔茨海默症团队高级医疗总监埃里克·西默斯(Eric Siemers)说，“这的确是巨大的进步。光荣属于FDA。”
Dr. Sean Bohen, senior vice president at Genentech for early development, praised the policy, but said he worried about how to develop appropriate tests to identify subtle cognitive changes.
基因泰克公司(Genentech)负责早期研发的高级副总裁肖恩·博恩博士(Sean Bohen)对这一政策表示赞扬，同时又说，他担忧如何才能设立可以辨识细微认知变化的合理测试。
“There is a lot of uncertainty,” Dr. Bohen said. “But it is an admirable effort. We have to start somewhere.”
博恩博士说，“还有很多不确定性。但是，这是一个令人钦佩的举动。我们总要找个突破口。”