KABUL, Afghanistan — An Afghan government delegation met with Taliban officials in the Pakistani capital for the first time on Tuesday, in a significant effort to open formal peace negotiations, according to Afghan, Pakistani and Western officials.
阿富汗喀布尔——据阿富汗、巴基斯坦及西方官员透露，阿富汗政府代表团于周二与塔利班官员首次在巴基斯坦首都会面，为开启正式的和平谈判做出重大努力。
The Islamabad meeting, brokered by Pakistani officials after months of intense effort by President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan to get them more centrally involved in the peace process, was the most promising contact between the two warring sides in years. And it followed a series of less formal encounters between various Afghan officials and Taliban representatives in other countries in recent months.
由巴基斯坦官方协调安排的此次伊斯兰堡会议是阿富汗交战双方多年来最具希望的接触。在好多个月里，阿富汗总统阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani)付出巨大努力，促使巴基斯坦官方在和平进程中发挥更为核心的作用。在此之前，各种阿富汗官员与塔利班代表于近几个月里在其他国家进行了一系列非正式接触。
A peace process that would lead to the Taliban ending their insurgency has long been seen as a crucial part of the American strategy to stabilize Afghanistan after a costly 14-year war. But previous promising moments in that effort, including the formal opening of a Taliban political office in Qatar in 2013, either fizzled or backfired.
经过十四年代价高昂的战争后，美国一直将能够促使塔利班终结叛乱的和平进程看作稳定阿富汗局势的策略的重要组成部分。之前也出现过显现希望的时刻，比如塔利班2013年在卡塔尔正式开设了政治处，不过，这些努力要么终成泡影，要么事与愿违。
That may be the case now, as well: No sooner had the talks begun than it became apparent that the Taliban were divided about whether to engage in a process facilitated by Pakistan.
此次会谈可能也会无果而终：会谈刚开始，塔利班就在是否应该参与由巴基斯坦推动的和平进程的问题上明显出现分歧。
In an email exchange with a New York Times reporter early Wednesday morning, a representative of the Taliban’s official political office in Qatar said that the delegates to the Islamabad meeting were “not authorized” to attend such meetings, and suggested they had been “hijacked” by Pakistan’s powerful intelligence service to appear.
在周三早上与《纽约时报》记者的邮件往来中，塔利班驻卡塔尔政治处的一名代表表示，参加伊斯兰堡会议的代表“没有获得”进行此类会议的“授权”，并称他们被巴基斯坦强大的情报部门“劫持”出席。
“We see it as the wrong direction toward peace, and the Pakistani-led process may cause more problems instead of solutions,” the official wrote. Later, the official added: “We will continue our political efforts for peaceful solution of the Afghan conflict.”
这名官员写道，“我们认为这是朝着和平的反方向走。巴基斯坦牵头的和平进程可能会引发更多问题，而不是带来解决方案。”在后文中，此人还表示：“我们将继续开展政治努力，寻求通过和平方式解决阿富汗冲突。”
Afghan and Western officials did not identify the Taliban representatives who attended the meeting on Tuesday. They described the delegates as significant, including some Taliban officials who had gone to the previous, less-formal talks.
阿富汗和西方官员没有披露周二出席会议的塔利班代表的身份。他们称这些代表举足轻重，其中包括参与之前非正式会谈的一些塔利班官员。
One senior Western official familiar with the meeting in Islamabad said that “we know there are senior leaders” involved. 
一名知晓伊斯兰堡会议内情的西方高层官员表示，“据我们了解，有高层领导人”参与。
Though the officials characterized the meeting as a promising potential step toward peace talks, they were cautious about the prospects. Afghan officials said the talks were mainly to set up a framework for further discussions, including setting up confidence-building measures both sides should take, and listing possible issues for negotiation.
虽然各方官员将此次会晤定性为有望促使双方开启和平谈判，但谈到这种前景时，他们都很谨慎。阿富汗官员表示，会谈主要是为进一步讨论搭建框架，包括制定双方都应该采取的建立信任的举措，以及列出谈判可能涉及的议题。
In the past, both the Afghan government and the Taliban have been wary of using Pakistan as a go-between for discussions. For its part, the Afghan government has long feared that the Pakistani military would scuttle any peace talks in hopes of using the Afghan Taliban, its traditional ally, as a proxy force to maintain its influence over Afghan affairs.
阿富汗政府和塔利班过去对于由巴基斯坦充当交流的中间人一直怀有戒心。阿富汗政府总是担心巴基斯坦军方会破坏和平谈判，希望利用其传统盟友阿富汗塔利班来维持对阿富汗事务的影响力。
Mr. Ghani’s all-out effort to court Pakistani officials and get them involved in talks has cost him substantial political capital at home, where Pakistan is widely viewed with suspicion. His political opponents, including members of former President Hamid Karzai’s inner circle, have vehemently criticized Mr. Ghani as having misplaced his trust in the Pakistanis, and selling out Afghanistan in the process.
加尼竭尽全力地讨好巴基斯坦官员，使得他们促成会谈。由于阿富汗国内对巴基斯坦普遍持怀疑态度，这样的做法令他在国内付出巨大的政治代价。包括前总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)核心圈子多名成员在内的加尼的政治对手对他进行了猛烈抨击，称他错信了巴基斯坦人，并在这个过程中出卖了阿富汗。
For their part, elements of the Afghan Taliban, even as they have found shelter in Pakistan, have chafed at their vulnerability to the country’s military and intelligence forces. That, in part, is why the group opened a political office in Qatar and insisted that official diplomatic communications go through there.
即便阿富汗塔利班中有部分人在巴基斯坦找到了栖身之地，但他们因为无力反抗该国军方与情报系统而感到恼怒。这是该组织在卡塔尔设立政治处并坚持要求通过那里进行官方外交联系的部分原因。
Despite the Taliban’s skepticism about Pakistani pressure, it is clear that the insurgents have been more willing to talk than ever before. In a year where the Taliban are making some of their biggest gains on the battlefield ever, they have simultaneously intensified their publicity efforts casting them as a legitimate political force. And the patter of informal meetings with Afghan officials abroad this year has been taken by some officials as a sign that the insurgents will eventually be more willing to negotiate once the fighting season is over.
虽然塔利班对巴基斯坦施加的压力持怀疑态度，但这些叛乱分子明显比以前更加愿意谈判。这一年里，塔利班在战场上收获颇丰，他们同时加强了宣传力度，将自己塑造成一支正当的政治力量。一些官员认为，塔利班与阿富汗官员今年在国外进行多次非正式会面是一种迹象，预示着一旦这一轮战事结束，叛乱分子最终会更加愿意参与谈判。
Even if serious talks with the Afghans were to begin, one concern among some Western and Afghan officials is that lower-level Taliban commanders might bridle or even split away from the group’s senior leadership in frustration, especially given their recent battlefield gains.
尽管与阿富汗的严肃会谈即将开始，一些西方及阿富汗官员担心，塔利班的部分低级别指挥官可能会心怀愤怒，甚至会因为不满而与该组织的高级领导层分裂，特别是鉴于他们近期在战场获得的胜利。
In recent months, too, the Taliban have faced an unanticipated threat that could intensify their risk of splintering: the emergence of the Islamic State in Afghanistan. That group, though not yet thought to pose a significant military threat in Afghanistan, has quickly managed to attract a wide array of disaffected Taliban leaders and other insurgents who doubt that the Taliban’s reclusive leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, is even alive. The Islamic State has managed to push the Taliban out of at least one district in the eastern province of Nangarhar, and skirmishes between the two groups have broken out in several provinces.
近几个月来，塔利班还面临一个未曾预料到的威胁，从而可能会加剧分裂风险：伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）在阿富汗的崛起。尽管舆论认为伊斯兰国尚未在阿富汗造成重大军事威胁，但该组织很快就吸引了众多心存不满的塔利班领导人，以及其他一些怀疑深居简出的塔利班头目毛拉穆罕默德·奥马尔(Mullah Mohammad Omar)是否在世的叛乱分子。伊斯兰国成功地将阿富汗东部楠格哈尔省至少一个地区的塔利班人员赶走，而且双方在几个省爆发了冲突。