Julian Assange was in classic didactic form, holding forth on the topic that consumes him — the perfidy of big government and especially of the United States.
朱利安‧阿桑奇(Julian Assange)一副好为人师的样子，滔滔不绝地讲着他感兴趣的话题：大政府的背信忘义，尤其是美国政府。
Assange, the editor of WikiLeaks, rose to global fame in 2010 for releasing huge caches of highly classified U.S. government communications that exposed the underbelly of its wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and its sometimes cynical diplomatic maneuvering around the world. But in a televised interview last September, it was clear that he still had plenty to say about “The World According to US Empire,” the subtitle of his latest book, “The WikiLeaks Files.”
维基解密(WikiLeaks)编辑阿桑奇因在2010年公布了大批美国政府高度机密的通讯档案而闻名全球。这些档案揭露了美国在阿富汗和伊拉克战争中不可告人的隐秘，还有它在世界各地那种有时毫无道德、损人利己的外交手腕。而在去年9月的一次电视访谈里，阿桑奇对于“美利坚帝国规则下的世界”显然还有很多话要说，这也是他的新书《维基解密档案》(The WikiLeaks Files)的副标题。
From the cramped confines of the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, where he was granted asylum four years ago amid a legal imbroglio, Assange proffered a vision of America as superbully: a nation that has achieved imperial power by proclaiming allegiance to principles of human rights while deploying its military-intelligence apparatus in “pincer” formation to “push” countries into doing its bidding, and punishing people like him who dare to speak the truth.
四年前，阿桑奇诉讼缠身时，在厄瓜多尔驻伦敦的大使馆获得政治庇护。也就是在这栋狭小的建筑里，他提出了美国是超级恶霸这个观点：一个国家借着宣示拥护人权原则获取帝国强权，同时派遣军事情报机关“两路夹击”，“推搡”其他国家按自己的吩咐行事，对他这种敢说真话的人加以惩罚。
Notably absent from Assange’s analysis, however, was criticism of another world power, Russia, or its president, Vladimir V. Putin, who has hardly lived up to WikiLeaks’ ideal of transparency. Putin’s government has cracked down hard on dissent — spying on, jailing, and, critics charge, sometimes assassinating opponents while consolidating control over the news media and internet. If Assange appreciated the irony of the moment — denouncing censorship in an interview on Russia Today, the Kremlin-controlled English-language propaganda channel — it was not readily apparent.
然而，阿桑奇的分析显然少了对另一个世界强权──俄罗斯──或该国总统普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的针砭，而普京距离维基解密对透明的理想追求可谓十分遥远。普京政府对异议人士严加打压，监视、下狱、进行舆论抨击，有时还暗杀政敌，又对新闻媒体与网络严加管控。阿桑奇在克里姆林宫掌控的英文政宣频道今日俄罗斯(Russia Today)接受访问时，对审查制度大加谴责。不知他本人是否意识到那一刻是多么讽刺。
Now, Assange and WikiLeaks are back in the spotlight, roiling the geopolitical landscape with new disclosures and a promise of more to come.
如今，阿桑奇与维基解密重回聚光灯下，用新爆料撼动地缘政治版图，并保证还有更多好戏在后面。
In July, the organization released nearly 20,000 Democratic National Committee emails suggesting that the party had conspired with Hillary Clinton’s campaign to undermine her primary opponent, Sen. Bernie Sanders. Assange — who has been openly critical of Clinton — has promised further disclosures that could upend her campaign against the Republican nominee, Donald Trump. Separately, WikiLeaks announced that it would soon release some of the crown jewels of American intelligence: a “pristine” set of cyberspying codes.
该组织在7月发布了将近2万封美国民主党全国委员会(Democratic Natoinal Committee)的电子邮件，显示该党与希拉里‧克林顿(Hillary Clinton)竞选团队共谋，诋毁克林顿的党内初选对手、参议员伯尼‧桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)。阿桑奇曾公开批评克林顿，也说过会揭露更多资料来打乱她面对共和党候选人唐纳德‧特朗普(Donald Trump)的总统选战。另一边，维基解密则宣布，很快会公布美国情报系统的某项核心资产：一组“全新的”的网络间谍代码。
U.S. officials say they believe with a high degree of confidence that the Democratic Party material was hacked by the Russian government, and suspect that the codes may have been stolen by the Russians as well. That raises a question: Has WikiLeaks become a laundering machine for compromising material gathered by Russian spies? And more broadly, what precisely is the relationship between Assange and Putin’s Kremlin?
美国官员表示，他们很确信民主党的资料是被俄罗斯政府黑客盗走的，并怀疑维基解密所说的代码也是俄罗斯人窃取的。这就引发了一个问题：维基解密是否成了替俄罗斯间谍洗白被盗的危害性材料的工具？更广泛地来看，阿桑奇与普京的克里姆林宫究竟有怎样的关系？
Those questions are made all the more pointed by Russia’s prominent place in the U.S. presidential election campaign. Putin, who clashed repeatedly with Clinton when she was secretary of state, has publicly praised Trump, who has returned the compliment, calling for closer ties to Russia and speaking favorably of Putin’s annexation of Crimea.
这些问题都因俄罗斯在美国总统选战中的显著地位而变得更突出。普京在克林顿担任国务卿时经常与其冲突，且普京已公开称许过特朗普，后者也报以恭维之词、呼吁与俄罗建立更紧密的关系，还对普京吞并克里米亚半岛表示赞同。
From the outset of WikiLeaks, Assange said he was motivated by a desire to use “cryptography to protect human rights,” and would focus on authoritarian governments like Russia’s.
维基解密创立之初，阿桑奇就表示他的动机是要“用密码学来捍卫人权”，并且会把矛头指向俄罗斯这样的独裁政府。
But a New York Times examination of WikiLeaks’ activities during Assange’s years in exile found a different pattern: Whether by conviction, convenience or coincidence, WikiLeaks’ document releases, along with many of Assange’s statements, have often benefited Russia, at the expense of the West.
不过，《纽约时报》检视了维基解密在阿桑奇流亡期间的作为，却发现大异其趣的规律：不论是出于信念、为方便行事或纯属巧合，维基解密发布的许多文件以及阿桑奇的声明，都常使俄罗斯受益，让西方国家承受损害。
Among U.S. officials, the emerging consensus is that Assange and WikiLeaks probably have no direct ties to Russian intelligence services. But they say that, at least in the case of the Democrats’ emails, Moscow knew it had a sympathetic outlet in WikiLeaks, where intermediaries could drop pilfered documents in the group’s anonymized digital inbox.
美国官员已逐渐有了共识，认为阿桑奇与维基解密应该和俄罗斯情报单位没有直接关系。不过他们也表示，至少在民主党邮件泄漏一事中，莫斯科当局知道他们在维基解密有个同仇敌忾的盟友，如此一来，俄方就能透过中间人将盗来的文件发送到该组织的匿名电邮信箱。
In an interview on Wednesday with The Times, Assange said Clinton and the Democrats were “whipping up a neo-McCarthyist hysteria about Russia.” There is “no concrete evidence” that what WikiLeaks publishes comes from intelligence agencies, he said, even as he indicated that he would happily accept such material.
阿桑奇周三(8月31日——译注)接受时报采访时说，克林顿与民主党是在“激起对俄罗斯的一种新麦卡锡主义的疯狂”。他说，“没有确切证据”能证明维基解密发布的内容来自情报机构，虽然他也表示自己会欣然接受这类情资。
But given WikiLeaks’ limited resources and the hurdles of translation, Assange said, why focus on Russia, which he described as a “bit player on the world stage,” compared with countries like China and the United States? In any event, he said, Kremlin corruption is an old story. “Every man and his dog is criticizing Russia,” he said. “It’s a bit boring, isn’t it?”
但鉴于维基解密的有限资源以及翻译上的难度，阿桑奇表示，和中国或美国相比，俄罗斯不过是个“在世界舞台上跑龙套的”国家，又何必专找他们呢？他说，无论如何，克里姆林宫的腐败都是老哏了。“每个人和他养的狗都在批评俄罗斯，”阿桑奇说。“这难道不无聊吗？”
Since its inception, WikiLeaks has succeeded spectacularly on some fronts, uncovering indiscriminate killing, hypocrisy and corruption, and helping spark the Arab Spring.
维基解密自创立以来，在某些方面取得了了不起的成功，揭露了大屠杀、伪善与腐败，阿拉伯之春也有维基解密的推动。
Recent events, though, have left some transparency advocates wondering if WikiLeaks has lost its way. There is a big difference between publishing materials from a whistle-blower like Chelsea Manning — the soldier who gave WikiLeaks its war log and diplomatic cable scoops — and accepting information, even indirectly, from a foreign intelligence service seeking to advance its own powerful interests, said John Wonderlich, the executive director of the Sunlight Foundation, a group devoted to government transparency.
不过近来几起事件却让某些倡议透明化的人士纳闷，维基解密是否迷失了方向？致力于提升政府透明度的阳光基金会(Sunlight Foundation)的执行主任约翰·旺德利希(John Wonderlich)认为，公开来自切尔西·曼宁(Chelsea Manning)这类告密者的资料，和接受外国情报机构为了自身巨大利益所提供的资讯，就算不是直接接受，两者是完全不同的。（曼宁是美国士兵，曾将阿富汗和伊拉克战争日志、国务院外交​​电报内幕交给维基解密。）
“They’re just aligning themselves with whoever gives them information to get attention or revenge against their enemies,” Wonderlich said. “They’re welcoming governments to hack into each other and disrupt each other’s democratic processes, all on a pretty weak case for the public interest.”
“谁向他们提供信息，他们就和谁站在一边，只为了吸引大家注意或是报复自己的对头，”旺德利希表示。“他们乐见各国政府黑进彼此的系统、扰乱对方的民主程序，都是打着公共利益的旗号，但理由却很牵强。”
Others see Assange assuming an increasingly blinkered approach to the world that, coupled with his own secrecy, has left them disillusioned.
还有人注意到，阿桑奇对待世界的态度越来越刚愎自用，再加上他自己行踪诡秘，让他们感到理想幻灭。
“The battle for transparency was supposed to be global; at least Assange claimed that at the beginning,” said Andrei A. Soldatov, an investigative journalist who has written extensively about Russia’s security services.
“争取透明化的战斗应该是全球性的，至少阿桑奇一开始是这么宣称，”曾大量撰文报导俄罗斯安全机构的调查记者安德烈·A‧索尔达托夫(Andrei A. Soldatov)表示。
“It is strange that this principle is not being applied to Assange himself and his dealings with one particular country, and that is Russia,” Soldatov said. “He seems to think that one may compromise a lot fighting a bigger evil.”
“奇怪的是，阿桑奇自己，还有他和特定某个国家，也就是和俄罗斯打交道的时候，并没有遵守这个原则，”索尔达托夫说。“他似乎觉得，为了对抗更庞大的恶势力，很多都可以妥协。”
In late November 2010, U.S. officials announced an investigation of WikiLeaks; Clinton, whose State Department was scrambled by what became known as “Cablegate,” vowed to take “aggressive” steps to hold those responsible to account.
2010年11月底，美国官员宣布对维基解密展开调查。当时克林顿坐镇的美国国务院因人称“电报门”(Cablegate)的泄密案大受动摇，她誓言要对肇事者采取“积极的”手段，把他们绳之以法。
The next month, Assange was arrested by the London police to face questioning by the Swedes, who he feared would turn him over to the Americans. Out on bail, he holed up and fought extradition at a Georgian country house owned by a supporter, Vaughan Smith, who said in an interview that he believed Assange to be the victim of an “intense online bullying and disinformation” campaign.
隔月，阿桑奇被伦敦警方逮捕以接受瑞典侦讯，而阿桑奇担心瑞典会把他交给美国。他在交保后藏身于支持者沃恩‧史密斯(Vaughan Smith)的一座乔治王朝风格的乡间别墅，抗拒引渡。史密斯在一次访谈中表示，他认为阿桑奇是“严重网络霸凌与虚假宣传”的受害者。
One day after Assange’s arrest, the Russian president appeared at a news conference with the French prime minister. Brushing off a questioner who suggested that the diplomatic cables portrayed Russia as undemocratic, Putin used the opportunity to bash the West.
阿桑奇被捕的第二天，俄罗斯总统在一场记者会上与法国总理一同现身。当一位记者在发问时提及，俄罗斯在外泄的外交电报里被描述成不民主的国家，普京不予理会，反而抓住这个机会猛轰西方国家。
“As far as democracy goes, it should be a complete democracy. Why then did they put Mr. Assange behind bars?” he asked. “There’s an American saying: He who lives in a glass house shouldn’t throw stones.”
“要说民主的话，就应该是完全彻底的民主，为什么他们还要把阿桑奇关进大牢？”他问道。“有句美国谚语说了：‘住在玻璃屋里的人就别扔石头。’”
It was the first of several times that Putin would take up Assange’s cause. He has called the charges against Assange “politically motivated” and declared that the WikiLeaks founder is being “persecuted for spreading the information he received from the U.S. military regarding the actions of the USA in the Middle East, including Iraq.”
那是普京首次提及阿桑奇的事，此后他还数次谈论此事。他说阿桑奇受到的司法控诉都是出于“政治动机”，并宣称这位维基解密创办人正因为“散布他从美国军方获得的美国在伊拉克等中东地区的行动相关情报而遭到迫害”。
In January 2011, the Kremlin issued Assange a visa, and one Russian official suggested that he deserved the Nobel Prize. Then, in April 2012, with WikiLeaks’ funding drying up — under U.S. pressure, Visa and MasterCard had stopped accepting donations — Russia Today began broadcasting a show called “The World Tomorrow” with Assange as the host. How much he or WikiLeaks was paid for the 12 episodes remains unclear.
克里姆林宫在2011年1月发给阿桑奇签证，还有一位俄罗斯官员说，阿桑奇该得到诺贝尔奖。接下来，随着维基解密的经费渐趋枯竭（在美国施压下，Visa和MasterCard停止了该组织的捐款业务），今日俄罗斯电视网在2012年4月开始播放一个叫做《明日世界》(The World Tomorrow)的节目，由阿桑奇主持，而他与维基解密借着这12集节目获利几何，仍属未知。
But on June 19, 2012, Assange’s narrative quickly took a different turn. He broke bail after losing an appeal against extradition to Sweden and was granted asylum in the tiny embassy of Ecuador in London.
不过，阿桑奇的故事在2012年6月19日很快出现转折。他在反对引渡瑞典的诉愿失败后，违反保释条例，在厄瓜多尔位于伦敦的占地不大的大使馆获得了政治庇护。
One year later, a man who would soon eclipse Assange in terms of whistle-blowing fame boarded a plane in Hong Kong. His name was Edward J. Snowden, and he was a National Security Agency contractor-turned-fugitive, having stunned the world and strained U.S. alliances by leaking documents that revealed a U.S.-led network of global surveillance programs.
一年后，一个作为泄密者声名即将掩盖阿桑奇的人，在香港登上一架飞机。他的名字叫做爱德华‧J‧斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)，曾任美国国家安全局外聘技师，如今沦为逃犯。他泄漏的文件揭发了美国主导的全球监控项目网络，震惊了全世界，使美国的盟国倍感不安。
Snowden had not given his thousands of classified documents to WikiLeaks. Still, it was at the suggestion of Assange that the flight Snowden boarded on June 23, 2013, accompanied by his WikiLeaks colleague Sarah Harrison, was bound for Moscow, where Snowden remains today after the United States canceled his passport en route.
斯诺登并没有把他的大批机密文件交给维基解密。然而他听从了阿桑奇的建议，在维基解密员工的莎拉‧哈里森(Sarah Harrison)陪同下，于2013年6月23日搭上了飞往莫斯科的班机。美国政府在他飞行途中注销了他的护照，但他一直留在俄罗斯至今。
In fact, worried that he would be seen as a spy, Snowden had hoped merely to pass through Russia on his way to South America, Assange later recounted, a plan he had not fully endorsed. Russia, he believed, could best protect Snowden from a CIA kidnapping, or worse.
事实上，据阿桑奇事后讲，斯诺登曾担心被视为间谍，所以只想在俄罗斯过境，取道南美。阿桑奇说，自己不完全赞成这个计划。阿桑奇相信，俄罗斯最能保护斯诺登免于被美国中情局绑架或其他更糟的后果。
“Now I thought, and in fact advised Edward Snowden, that he would be safest in Moscow,” Assange told the news program Democracy Now.
“我认为，爱德华‧斯诺登待在莫斯科是最安全的，我也是这样向他建议的，”阿桑奇告诉美国独立新闻节目《民主，就是现在》(Democracy Now)。
During his time isolated in the Ecuadorean Embassy, under constant surveillance, his instinctive mistrust of the West hardened even as he became increasingly numb to the abuses of the Kremlin, which he viewed as a “bulwark against Western imperialism,” said one supporter, who like many others asked for anonymity for fear of angering Assange.
一位阿桑奇的支持者表示，阿桑奇在隔离于厄瓜多尔大使馆期间一直受到监视，那段时间，他对西方世界本能的疑心更为根深蒂固，对克里姆林宫的恶劣行径亦渐感麻木，并将其视为“抵御西方帝国主义的堡垒”。这位支持者就像其他许多受访者一样，因为害怕触怒阿桑奇而要求匿名。
Another person who collaborated with WikiLeaks in the past added: “He views everything through the prism of how he’s treated. America and Hillary Clinton have caused him trouble, and Russia never has.”
另一位曾与维基解密共事过的受访者则表示：“他透过别人对待他的方式来评价每件事情；美国和希拉里‧克林顿给他造成了麻烦，俄罗斯从来没有。”
The result has been a “one-dimensional confrontation with the USA,” Daniel Domscheit-Berg, who before quitting WikiLeaks in 2010 was one of Assange’s closest partners, has said.
其结果就成了“单纯的与美国对抗”，丹尼尔‧多姆沙伊特伯格(Daniel Domscheit-Berg)评论道。他曾是阿桑奇最亲密的事业伙伴之一，在2010年离开了维基解密。