Julian Assange on Thursday formally started a new political party bearing the name of his antisecrecy organization, WikiLeaks, and announced his own candidacy for a seat in the Australian Senate in national elections to be held here later this year.
朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)在周四正式成立了一个以他的反保密组织维基泄密(WikiLeaks)命名的新政党，并宣布他将以参议院议员候选人的身份，参加今年晚些时候澳大利亚举行的大选。
In a telephone interview, Mr. Assange said he had every confidence in his ability to run a campaign from the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, where he has been living for more than a year after having been given asylum so as not to face extradition to Sweden, where he is wanted for questioning on sexual assault allegations.
阿桑奇在电话采访中说，他充满信心，相信自己有能力从厄瓜多尔驻伦敦的大使馆展开竞选活动。阿桑奇已在大使馆居住一年以上，为了不被引渡到瑞典，接受对他性骚扰指控的询问，他申请并获得了厄瓜多尔政府的庇护。
“It’s not unlike running the WikiLeaks organization,” he said. “We have people on every continent. We have to deal with over a dozen legal cases at once.
他说，“这和运作维基泄密没什么两样。我们在每个大洲都有人。我们需要同时对付十几起法律案件。”
“However, it’s nice to be politically engaged in my home country,” he added.
“但是，能参加祖国的政治活动，这让我很高兴”，他补充道。
Mr. Assange, an Australian computer hacker who rose to prominence as an evangelist for radical government transparency and a critic of United States foreign policy under then-President George W. Bush, is a deeply polarizing figure.
澳大利亚籍的电脑黑客阿桑奇是位引起高度争议的人物，他闻名于世，因为他狂热地鼓吹政府应该彻底透明，而且在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)任总统期间，他极力批评美国的外交政策。
His supporters laud him as a hero for what they see as his dogged pursuit of government transparency, but prominent critics such as Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. have referred to him as a “high-tech terrorist” for what they call the reckless release of classified information that has harmed American interests and put lives in danger.
他的支持者把他视为英雄，因为他不屈不挠地追求政府信息透明；但是，批评他的著名人物（比如美国副总统小约翰·R·拜登[Joseph R. Biden Jr.]）则把他称作“高技术恐怖主义分子”，因为他们认为阿桑奇肆无忌惮地泄露机密，损害了美国的利益，使一些人的生命受到威胁。
Mr. Assange is perhaps best known for WikiLeaks’ 2010 release of a massive trove of American diplomatic cables. His supporters maintain that the United States and its allies have fabricated the sexual assault case against him in Sweden to hamper his ability to release further classified materials and punish him for those already released.
阿桑奇最为人熟知的原因或许是，维基泄密在2010年曾泄露了一大批美国外交电文。他的支持者坚持认为，美国及其盟友捏造了他在瑞典进行性骚扰的案件，以阻止他继续泄露更多机密文件，也是对他已经泄露的信息做出的惩罚。
In addition to Mr. Assange, the party announced on Thursday the names of six other candidates it will be running in the election, which is currently scheduled to be held on Sept. 14.
除了阿桑奇之外，该党在周四还宣布了另外6名将要参加大选的候选人，这次澳大利亚选举计划将于9月14日举行。
“My plans are to essentially parachute in a crack troop of investigative journalists into the Senate and to do what we have done with WikiLeaks, in holding banks and government and intelligence agencies to account,” Mr. Assange said.
阿桑奇说，“我的计划是在参议院空降一个由调查记者组成的精锐部队，来从事我们在维基泄密曾经做过的工作，那就是对银行、政府和情报机构问责。”
Mr. Assange said that his experience in running WikiLeaks had prepared him for a role in the Australian Senate, which is similar in its powers and structure to the United States Senate.
阿桑奇说，他运行维基泄密的经历，为他在澳大利亚参议院所能起的作用做好了准备，澳大利亚参议院的权力和结构与美国参议院的相似。
Under Australian law, Mr. Assange would have to take his seat within one year of being elected, although the Senate could technically grant him an extension if he is unable to physically take his seat. The British government has stated its intention to arrest him if he leaves the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, which presents a unique set of logistical obstacles should he win the election.
根据澳大利亚法律，如果当选，阿桑奇必须在一年内到任，但如果他不能亲身就座其议员席位，参议院原则上可以允许他延期到任。英国政府已明确表示，如果阿桑奇离开厄瓜多尔驻伦敦的大使馆，就将逮捕他。如果他果真当选，他将会面临一组独特的运筹难题。
“There is, of course, some possibility that the Australian Senate would permit remote involvement – it’s never been done before, but it is theoretically possible,” he said. “But in any event we have candidates available to hold the seat until such time as I am available to take it.”
他说，“当然有可能澳大利亚参议院会允许远程参议，虽然以前从来没有这样做过，但在理论上是可能的。不过，无论如何，我们有能占据这个席位的候选人，直到我能去上任为止。”
If elected, he said, his party would work to advance a platform of “transparency, justice and accountability.”
他说，如果当选，他的政党将会致力于推进一个“透明、公正和负责”的纲领。