EVERYONE knows the president fell, but nobody knows how, or when, or where. There are several theories in circulation about what happened to the Argentine president, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner: some say she tripped on the stairway of her plane, others say it was a lumpy rug, and still others say she fainted. People are also split on when it happened: either just before or just after the August primary for the midterm elections, when her party saw its lowest support in a decade.
大家都知道阿根廷总统摔倒了，但没有人知道她什么时候、在哪儿、怎么摔倒的。关于克里斯蒂娜·费尔南德斯·德基什内尔(Cristina Fernández de Kirchner)到底怎么了，现在有几种说法在流传：有人说她在飞机的舷梯上绊倒了，其他人则说是因为地毯不平，还有一些人说她晕倒了。对于什么时间发生的这件事，人们也有不同看法：有人说就在为中期选举而举行的8月初选之前，有人说是在这之后，当时总统所在政党的支持率跌至10年来的最低点。
By the time she was released from the hospital early this week, all we could agree on was that she’d had surgery after enduring a blow to the head, a blow that had produced the subdural hematoma that, over the past few days, has kept Argentina hanging in the balance.
到本周早些时候她出院时，我们所能达成一致意见的就是：头部受到的重击造成硬脑膜下血肿后，她接受了手术。在过去几天，阿根廷的命运因为这个血肿悬而未决。
This wasn’t the first time our president had been hospitalized. She underwent surgery after a misdiagnosis of thyroid cancer in 2011. That was the year that Hugo Chávez, already ill, said he believed that someone (e.g., United States intelligence) “might have developed the technology to induce cancer” and was using it to murder Latin American leaders.
这不是我们的总统第一次住院了。2011年，在被误诊为甲状腺癌后，她进行了手术。也是在那一年，已经生病的乌戈·查韦斯(Hugo Chávez)说他认为有人（如美国情报机构）“可能开发出诱导癌症的技术”并在用它谋杀拉丁美洲的领导人。
It’s a tempting theory: the Colombian president Juan Manuel Santos had surgery for prostate cancer last year; the president of Paraguay, Fernando Lugo, as well as Brazil’s two most recent presidents, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff, have also battled malignant tumors. Mr. Chávez died after his battle with cancer this year.
这个理论听上去很吸引人：去年哥伦比亚总统胡安·曼努埃尔·桑托斯(Juan Manuel Santos)因为前列腺癌接受了手术；巴拉圭总统费尔南多·卢戈(Fernando Lugo)以及巴西最近在任的两个总统路易斯·伊纳西奥·卢拉·达席尔瓦(Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva)、迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)也都曾和恶性肿瘤抗争过。在和癌症进行斗争后，查韦斯于今年去世。
The more likely explanation is that there is simply something about the exercise of power that does not seem to agree with those Latin Americans who attempt it.
而更可能的一种解释是，权力行使的一些特性似乎就是和那些相关的拉丁美洲人无法和谐共存。
Sickness, however, has a way of bringing on sympathy and affection from the public. In 2010, when her husband and the former president, Néstor Kirchner, died of a heart attack at 60, Mrs. Kirchner’s support skyrocketed.
而且，罹患疾病可以是一种获取公众同情和爱戴的方法。2010年，当她的丈夫、前总统内斯托尔·基什内尔(Néstor Kirchner)，在60岁时因心脏病去世时，克里斯蒂娜·费尔南德斯·德基什内尔的支持率飙升。
In certain countries, voters are inclined to abandon leaders who reveal physical or emotional weakness, but in Argentina it’s the other way around. Just look at her party’s campaign ads featuring shots of the candidate, Martín Insaurralde, with no hair as a result of chemotherapy treatments. In Argentine politics, sickness and death are key players.
在某些国家，选民通常会抛弃那些显露出身体或情感脆弱的领导人，但在阿根廷，情况却正好相反。看看她所在政党打出来的印着候选人马丁·因绍拉尔德(Martín Insaurralde)照片的宣传广告你就明白了，上面的他因化疗而掉光了头发。在阿根廷政治中，疾病和死亡扮演着关键角色。
Mrs. Kirchner — whom doctors have advised to take a month off from work to recover — needs that sympathy now more than ever. Her administration is suffering a seemingly never-ending string of errors. The worst of these was the transformation of a country that once relied entirely on its own sources for oil and natural gas into one that depends on imports, a draining of resources that has led to what many economists say is an annual inflation rate of 25 percent.
德基什内尔——医生建议她休息一个月恢复身体，现在比以往任何时候都更需要这种同情。她的政府正陷入一连串似乎永远不会结束的错误之中。其中最严重的错误便是，将一个曾经完全依赖国内石油和天然气资源的国家转变成一个依赖进口的国家，以及对资源的消耗，许多经济学家说，这来自25%的年通胀率。
But her administration is also capable of infinite smaller errors that make everyday work that much more complicated. For example: the choice of Amado Boudou as her vice president. Mr. Boudou, the former finance minister, was never popular. But Mrs. Kirchner insisted that he be her running mate in 2011. “I need a man at my side who isn’t afraid,” she said at the time.
而且她的政府还能不停地犯下诸多小错误，大大增加了日常工作的复杂程度。比如，选择阿马多·布杜(Amado Boudou)做她的副总统。前财政部长布杜从来不受欢迎，但德基什内尔在2011年坚持要求布杜做其选举搭档。“我需要一个不害怕的男人在我旁边支持我，”当时德基什内尔这么说。
Mr. Boudou was certainly not afraid — to sing rock ’n’ roll, to cruise around on his motorcycle, to smile ceaselessly and to rack up allegations: he is being investigated for corruption and illicit enrichment. Mrs. Kirchner has been dogged by accusations of corruption of her own. But Mr. Boudou has succeeded in becoming the politician with the worst public image in Argentina, a country that, in general, does not look kindly upon its elected officials.
布杜肯定不害怕——唱摇滚、骑着摩托车四处飞驰、永不停止地微笑，并引来诸多指控：他正因腐败和不当致富而受到调查。德基什内尔自己也一直为腐败指控所困扰。但布杜成功地荣膺阿根廷公共形象最差的政治家的称号。总的来说，阿根廷对民选官员很苛刻。
For this reason, Mrs. Kirchner has kept him out of the public eye and, when she fell ill, tried to put off or hide his temporary ascent to the presidency. For a couple of days, uncertainty reigned: nobody knew if Mr. Boudou was the interim president or not. Now we all know that he is, but apparently the power remains in Mrs. Kirchner’s hands.
为此，德基什内尔一直让布杜避开公众视线，在她生病后，德基什内尔又尝试推迟或隐藏他暂时代理总统一职这件事。有那么几天，不确定性笼罩着阿根廷：没有人知道布杜到底是不是临时总统。现在我们都知道他是，但很明显大权仍掌握在德基什内尔手中。
Some have joked that the only reason Mrs. Kirchner chose him was so that voters would dislike him so much, they would want her to stay in her presidential seat as long as possible. But it’s not working.
一些人曾开玩笑说，德基什内尔选布杜的唯一原因就是因为这样选民就会特别讨厌他，从而会希望她能在尽可能长的时间里当总统。但这个方法没能奏效。
This time around, it’s becoming increasingly clear that not even the president’s illness can attract enough support to help her reverse the electoral defeat that all the polls are predicting. For once, personal matters might be less important to voters than inflation, insecurity, inefficiency and all the accusations of corruption. Mrs. Kirchner’s hopes of running again in 2015 seem to have been buried.
现在，我们能越来越明显地看出，就连总统的病也不能吸引足够支持，来帮她扭转所有民意调查所预测的选举失败。这一次，对选民而言，个人的事可能没有通胀、缺乏安全感、低效以及所有关于腐败的指控那么重要。德基什内尔想要2015年再次参选的愿望似乎已经破灭了。
So after all, perhaps she will find herself cured of the ailment that, of all those suffered by Latin American politicians, is the most endemic: the re-election virus. In our part of the world, where leaders have been known to manipulate national institutions in order to retain their command, this is a rare event. For too many of them, executive power is the last shield against judicial power: between the two, they know for sure which one they prefer.
所以到了最后，或许她会发现，某种病被治好了，而这个病在所有折磨拉丁美洲领导人的病痛中最具普遍性，那就是再次竞选病毒。在我们这个一直以领导人操纵国家机器来为自己留住权力而出名的地区，这事很罕见。对于他们中很多人而言，行政权是抵御司法权的最后一道防线：在二者中，他们确切地知道自己喜欢哪一个。