BUENOS AIRES, Argentina — Confronted with a deepening scandal, the president of Argentina abruptly reversed herself Thursday, saying that the death of the lead prosecutor investigating the 1994 bombing of a Jewish center was not a suicide as she and other government officials had suggested.
阿根廷布宜诺斯艾利斯——面对日渐发酵的丑闻，阿根廷总统周四突然改了口风，表示调查1994年犹太人中心爆炸案的首席检察官并非死于自杀。在此之前，女总统与其他一些政府官员一直表示此人为自尽身亡。
Instead, President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner suggested that the prosecutor's death was part of what she hinted was a sinister plot to defame and destroy her.
这一次，总统克里斯蒂娜·费尔南德斯·德基什内尔(Cristina Fernández de Kirchner)表示，这名检察官死于非命。她暗示，这是一起旨在诋毁她的邪恶阴谋。
The president's change of position added a major new twist into the suspicious death of the prosecutor, Alberto Nisman, whose body was found in his luxury apartment in Buenos Aires late Sunday with a fatal gunshot wound to the head.
总统的立场转变给这桩破朔迷离的死亡事件增添了新的变数。该检察官名为阿尔韦托·尼斯曼(Alberto Nisman)，他的尸体周日夜里在其布宜诺斯艾利斯的豪华公寓里被发现，头部带有一处致命的枪伤。
“As the days go by, instead of knowing more, we know less,” Carlos Pagni, a political commentator, wrote in a column in La Nación newspaper, in which he pointed to the case's “tide of unknown quantities.”
“随着时间的推移，我们知道的事情越来越少，而不是越来越多，”政治评论员卡洛斯·帕尼(Carlos Pagni)在《民族报》(La Nación)的专栏文章中这样写道。他还指出，本案存在“如潮的未知数”。
Nisman had long accused Iran of planning and financing the 1994 attack, which left 85 people dead. But this month he intensified his claims, accusing Kirchner and top aides of trying to subvert his 10-year investigation into the bombing — allegations that the government has flatly rejected.
尼斯曼生前长期指控伊朗策划并资助了导致85人丧生的1994年袭击活动。不过，他本月将指控进一步升级，称德基什内尔及其高级幕僚试图破坏他对爆炸案进行的为期10年的调查。这一指控遭到了政府的断然否认。
Using transcripts of intercepted phone calls, Nisman asserted that the government had pursued a secret deal with Iran to exchange Iranian oil for Argentine grains — and to shield Iranian officials from charges that they had orchestrated the bombing.
利用截获的通话记录文本，尼斯曼坚称政府在寻求与伊朗达成一项秘密协议：拿本国谷物交换伊朗石油，并让伊朗官员免受策划爆炸案的指控。
Nisman had been scheduled to testify to lawmakers about his accusations Monday. News of his death, just hours before that widely anticipated testimony, stunned Argentina and immediately raised suspicions of a political cover-up to protect the president.
按照计划，尼斯曼应于周一出席听证会，在国会议员面前阐述自己的指控。就在这次万众期待的听证会之前的几个小时，他突然殒命，令整个阿根廷为之震惊，并且迅速引发了这是为了保护总统而进行的政治掩盖行动的怀疑。
Thousands of Argentines took to the streets after Nisman's death was announced, not only to show their anger at the unsolved bombing, which is widely considered a national disgrace, but to demand a full and transparent investigation into Nisman's death.
尼斯曼的死讯公布之后，数以千计的阿根廷民众走上街头。他们不仅是要展示自己对那起爆炸案的愤怒，还要求对尼斯曼的身亡进行全面而透明的调查。这起爆炸案至今悬而未决，已被广泛视为民族耻辱。
After having suggested that his death appeared to be a suicide, Kirchner's new explanation Thursday was contained in a letter posted on her website, saying that Nisman had been manipulated by others to smear her.
提出他似乎死于自杀后，德基什内尔周四通过自己网站上的一封信给出了新的解释，声称尼斯曼受他人操纵来诋毁她。
“They used him while he was alive and then they needed him dead,” Kirchner wrote in the letter, which she subtitled, in part: “The suicide (that I am convinced) was not suicide.”
“他们在他生前加以利用，然后又将他灭口，”德基什内尔在信中写道。信的副标题中包含这样的内容：“（我以为的）自杀并非自杀”。
The president offered no clear explanation or evidence as to who might have been responsible.
至于谁可能要为此负责，总统并未给出清晰的解释或证据。
Officials in Kirchner's government have dismissed Nisman's assertions about a secret deal with Iran, saying he had been manipulated by Antonio Stiusso, a former senior intelligence official ousted by the president in December.
德基什内尔政府的官员断然否认尼斯曼提出的与伊朗进行秘密协议的说法，而是声称他受到了安东尼奥·斯蒂乌索(Antonio Stiusso)的操控。后者曾是一名高级情报官员，去年12月遭总统解职。
Héctor Timerman, Argentina's foreign minister, said that contrary to Nisman's claims, the government had never tried to get Interpol to lift the arrest warrants against Iranian officials wanted in connection with the attack.
阿根廷外交部长埃克托尔·蒂梅尔曼(Héctor Timerman)表示，与尼斯曼的说法正好相反，政府从未试图让国际刑警组织(Interpol)解除针对涉嫌爆炸案的伊朗官员的通缉令。
Timerman noted that he had released an email from Ronald Noble, the secretary-general of Interpol from 2000 through 2014, agreeing that Timerman and the Argentine government had been “consistent and unwavering” in arguing that the arrest warrants should remain in place.
蒂梅尔曼指出，他已公布了来自2000年至2014年间担任国际刑警组织总干事的罗纳德·诺布尔(Ronald Noble)的一封电子邮件。文中认同的说法是，蒂梅尔曼本人及阿根廷政府一直“执着而坚定地”为保留通缉令进行辩护。
Investigators looking into Nisman's death have not ruled out any possibility. But conflicting news reports about the circumstances that preceded the discovery of his body, slumped in the bathroom of his 13th-floor apartment, have fed suspicions that he may have been killed.
调查尼斯曼死因的人员尚未排除任何可能性。尼斯曼的尸体倒在他位于13层的公寓卫生间里。不过，关于发现尸体前的情形出现了相互矛盾的新闻报道，为他或许死于谋杀的怀疑增添了素材。
On Wednesday, for example, news reports described a previously undisclosed third entry point to Nisman's apartment, which had been initially reported by investigators as having only two entrances — a main door and service door — that were both locked at the time of Nisman's death.
例如，本周三的新闻报道中提到了通向尼斯曼公寓的第三个入口，而这扇门先前未作披露。调查人员起初的说法是仅有两个入口，一个是大门，另一个是服务门。在尼斯曼死亡的时候，它们都是锁着的。
The third entry point, described as a maintenance door, leads to a small passageway for repairing air-conditioning units, and a footprint and another unspecified print were discovered in this passageway, these reports said.
第三个入口被称为“维护门”，通向一个用于维修空调机组的小通道。报道称，在这个通道里发现了一处脚印和另外一个尚未辨识出来的痕迹。
In addition, an assistant who lent Nisman the pistol that fired the fatal bullet was quoted as saying that Nisman had asked him for the weapon because Stiusso had warned him that he was in danger.
此外，报道还引述了一名助理的话披露，导致尼斯曼丧生的子弹，就是他向这名助理借用的手枪发射的。该助理称，尼斯曼之所以向他借用这支武器，是因为斯蒂乌索曾警告说他有危险。
In another twist, the locksmith summoned by Nisman's mother for assistance in gaining entry to his apartment on Sunday night, which led to the discovery of his body, claimed that the service door was not actually locked when he arrived.
另一个悬念是，尼斯曼的母亲在周日晚上找了一名锁匠，帮她进入这所公寓，从而发现了他的尸体。这名锁匠声称，他到那里的时候，服务门其实并没有锁上。
Viviana Fein, the prosecutor leading the investigation, later dismissed this, explaining that the service door had multiple locks.
领导案件调查的检察官维维安娜·费恩(Viviana Fein)后来否定了这一点，解释说服务门上不止一把锁。
Fein insisted on Thursday that she was treating Nisman's death as suspicious. There have been no arrests.
本周四，费恩坚称，她把尼斯曼的死亡列为了可疑事件来处理。目前尚未有任何人遭到逮捕。