AND so it turns out that there were actually two Arab awakenings.
事实证明，“阿拉伯觉醒”实际上有两种形式。
There are the radical revolutions you’ve read about in Tunisia, Egypt, Syria, Yemen and Libya, none of which yet have built stable, inclusive democracies. But then there are the radical evolutions that you’ve not read about, playing out in Saudi Arabia and other Arab Gulf monarchies. The evolutions involve a subtle but real shift in relations between leaders and their people, and you can detect it from even a brief visit to Saudi Arabia, Dubai and Abu Dhabi. The Gulf leaders still have no time for one-man, one-vote democracy. But, in the wake of the Arab Spring, they’re deeply concerned with their legitimacy, which they are discovering can no longer just be bought with more subsidies — or passed from father to son. So more and more leaders are inviting their people to judge them by how well they perform — how well they improve schools, create jobs and fix sewers — not just resist Israel or Iran or impose Islam.
一种是你已经从新闻中看到过的，在突尼斯、埃及、叙利亚、也门和利比亚发生的激进革命，其中没有任何一个建立了稳定的、包容的民主国家。但还有一种是你没有看到的、激进的变革，发生在沙特阿拉伯和阿拉伯海湾的其他君主制国家。在这些变革中，领导者和民众之间的关系出现了微妙却实实在在的转变，而且，即便你只在沙特阿拉伯、迪拜和阿布扎比做短暂停留，也能察觉到这种转变。海湾地区的领导者仍然不愿推进一人一票式的民主。但是，在阿拉伯之春之后，他们为自己的统治正当性感到异常担忧，他们发现，仅仅依靠更多的补贴——或从父子的代代相传——是无法获得这种正当性的。因此，越来越多的领导者开始让本国民众根据表现来做出评价——改善教育水平、创造就业机会和修复下水道方面的表现——而不仅是抵抗以色列或伊朗，或者强化伊斯兰教方面的成果。
And, thanks in large part to the Internet, more people are doing just that. The role of the Internet was overrated in Egypt and Tunisia. But it is underrated in the Gulf, where, in these more closed societies, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are providing vast uncontrolled spaces for men and women to talk to each other — and back at their leaders. “I don’t read any local newspapers anymore,” a young Saudi techie told me. “I get all my news from Twitter.” So much for government-controlled newspapers.
越来越多的民众也的确开始评价政府的表现，这在很大程度上得归功于互联网。互联网的作用在埃及和突尼斯被高估了，但在海湾国家，它却被低估了。在后者更加封闭的社会里，Facebook、Twitter和YouTube提供了广阔的、不受控制的空间，让男男女女得以相互交谈，并向领导者作出回复。“我不再看本地报纸了，”一名年轻的沙特计算机高手跟我说。“所有新闻我都是在Twitter上看的。”政府控制的报纸再也无能为力。
Saudi Arabia alone produces almost half of all tweets in the Arab world and is among the most Twitter- and YouTube-active nations in the world. By far, those Saudis with the most Twitter and YouTube followers tend to be Wahhabi fundamentalist preachers, but gaining on them are satirists, comedians and commentators, who poke fun at all aspects of Saudi society, including — usually indirectly — the religious establishment, which is no longer off limits.
阿拉伯世界所有Twitter消息，几乎有一半都来自于沙特阿拉伯，而且它也是全球使用Twitter和YouTube最活跃的国家之一。迄今为止，Twitter和YouTube上粉丝最多的沙特人往往都是瓦哈比原教旨主义(Wahhabi fundamentalist)布道者，但紧随其后的是讽刺作家、喜剧演员和评论家，他们取笑沙特社会的各个方面，包括——通常是间接地取笑——宗教权威，这已经不再是禁区。
King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who in Gulf Arab terms is a real progressive, remains widely popular, but his government bureaucracy is seen as unresponsive and too often corrupt. That’s why Saudi Twitter users have recently created these Arabic hashtags: “#If I met the King, I would tell him”; “#From the people to the King: education is at risk” and “#What Would You Like to Say to the Minister of Health?” (after repeated hospital mishaps).
以阿拉伯海湾地区的标准，沙特阿拉伯国王阿卜杜拉(Abdullah)是一个真正的进步派，他仍然广得民心，但他的政府官僚机构却被视为反应迟钝、腐败丛生。这就是为什么沙特Twitter用户最近创建了这些阿拉伯语的主题标签：“＃如果我遇到国王，我会告诉他”，“＃从民众到国王：教育岌岌可危”以及在医疗事故频发之后后出现的“＃你想对卫生部长说什么？”
There were torrential rainstorms when I was in Saudi Arabia 10 days ago and the Saudi newspaper, Al-Sharq, published a cartoon with three men answering this question: Why did all the streets of Riyadh flood? The government official answers: “The streets didn’t flood. That’s just a vicious rumor.” The sheikh answers: “It’s all because of the sins of the girls at Princess Nora University.” The citizen says: “It’s because of corruption” — but then the cartoon shows an arm labeled “censorship” coming from off the page to snip off this comment. That is in a Saudi paper!
十天前我在沙特阿拉伯的时候遇到了特大暴雨，在沙特报纸《阿沙尔克报》(Al-Sharq)刊登的一副漫画中，三个男人回答同一个问题：为什么利雅得所有的街道都被水淹了？政府官员回答说：“街道没有被水淹。这不过是恶毒的谣言。”阿拉伯酋长回答：“这是因为诺拉公主大学(Princess Nora University)那些女孩们罪孽深重。”市民则说：“这是因为腐败。”——然后，漫画上显示了一条写着“审查”的胳膊，从外面伸进来，剪掉了这条评论。这样的内容出现在了沙特报纸上！
In the United Arab Emirates, a government official was recently embarrassed when he was captured on a cellphone video, after a traffic accident, beating the other driver, an Asian worker, with the rope from his headdress. The video went viral across the Gulf.
阿拉伯联合酋长国有一位政府官员近日陷入了尴尬，因为他在发生交通事故后，用自己的头饰上的绳子打对方司机——一名亚洲工人，结果被人用手机拍下了视频，并在海湾地区疯转。
People are losing their fear — not to revolt, but to demand clean accountable governance. Last week, a Saudi friend shared with me a video that went viral there on What’sApp that was posted by a poor man whose roof leaked during the rainstorms, even into his baby’s bassinet. He can be seen stalking around his rain-soaked house, saying: “I am Saudi. This is how I live. ... Where is the minister of housing? Where are the billions the king has given for housing? ... Where are my rights? ... I feel like being in my home and being in the street are the same.”
人们的恐惧感正在消失——他们不是反抗，而是要求政府清廉地、尽责地治理国家。上周，沙特朋友转给我一个What'sApp上流传甚广的视频，张贴这个视频的人很倒霉，他的屋顶在暴雨中漏水了，连孩子的摇篮里都进了水。在这段视频中，他一边在泡着水的房子里走动，一边说：“我是沙特人。这就是我的生活……住房部部长在哪里？国王拨给住房的数十亿资金在哪里？……我的权利在哪里？我觉得住在我家里，跟住在街上没什么区别。”
I heard many of these stories during group conversations with young Saudis and Emeratis, who I found to be as impressive, connected and high-aspiring to reform their countries as any of their revolutionary cohorts in Egypt. But they want evolution not revolution. They’ve seen the footage from Cairo and Damascus. You can feel their energy — from the grass-roots movement to let women drive to the young Saudi who whispers that he’s so fed up with the puritanical Islam that dominates his country he’s become an atheist, and he is not alone. Saudi atheists? Who knew?
在跟沙特和阿联酋的年轻人进行集体交流时，我听到了很多这样的事情，我觉得这些年轻人像埃及的革命拥护者一样令人印象深刻，他们保持着联系，斗志昂扬地想要改革自己的国家。但他们希望进行变革而不是革命。他们已经看到了从开罗和大马士革的画面。你能感觉到他们的能量——从支持女性开车的草根运动，到一个年轻沙特人低声说，他对自己国家占主导地位的清教徒式的伊斯兰教已经受够了，以至于成为了一个无神论者，而且这样的人并不止他一个。沙特无神论者？你见过吗？
Talk about reform — in Dubai, the government has set a strategy for 2021, and each of the 46 ministries and regulatory agencies has three-year Key Performance Indicators, or K.P.I.’s, they have to fulfill to get there, ranging from improving the success of Dubai 15-year-olds in global science, math and reading exams to making it even easier to start a new business. All 3,600 K.P.I.’s are loaded on an iPad dashboard that the ruler, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, follows each week. Maryam al-Hammadi, 48, the director of government performance, strikes fear in the heart of every minister in Dubai because each month she ranks them by who is making the most progress toward achieving their K.P.I.’s, and Sheikh Mohammed gets the list. You don’t want to be at the bottom. Hammadi showed me the dashboard and explained that Sheikh Mohammed is demanding that “every government agency perform as well as the private sector in customer satisfaction and service.” The public will get an annual report.
谈到改革——在迪拜，政府已经制定了一个2021年远景规划，所有46个部和监管机构都有各自的三年关键绩效指标，或称KPI，比如提高迪拜15岁学生在全球科学、数学和阅读考试中的水平，到让创业在沙特变得更加容易等等。他们必须达到这些KPI，以便最终实现远景规划。通过装在iPad上的一个指标图表，可以看到所有3600项KPI的每一项，迪拜统治者穆罕默德·本·拉希德(Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid)每周都会跟进这些指标。48岁的玛丽亚姆·哈马迪(Maryam al-Hammadi)是政府绩效总监，她让迪拜的每个部长都感到担惊受怕，因为每个月，她都会根据他们实现各自KPI的进展幅度给他们排名，而穆罕默德酋长会看到这份排名表。你肯定不希望排在最后。哈马迪向我展示了指标图表，并解释说，穆罕默德酋长要求“在客户满意度和服务方面，每一个政府机构都要向私营公司看齐”。民众每年会得到一份年度报告。
Again, this is not about democracy. It’s about leaders feeling the need to earn their legitimacy. But when one leader does it, others feel the pressure to copy. And that leads to more transparency and more accountability. And that, and more Twitter, leads to who knows what.
然而，这里的重点不是民主，而是领导者感觉他们需要赢得统治的正当性。但是，当有一个领导者这样做的时候，别人就会有依样而行的压力。而这就会带来更大的透明度和更强的问责能力。这种情况，以及更多的Twitter活动，可能会催生一些谁也说不准的变化。