ORAN, Algeria — AFTER Tahrir came Cologne. After the square came sex. The Arab revolutions of 2011 aroused enthusiasm at first, but passions have since waned. Those movements have come to look imperfect, even ugly: For one thing, they have failed to touch ideas, culture, religion or social norms, especially the norms relating to sex. Revolution doesn’t mean modernity.
阿尔及利亚奥兰——解放广场之后，发生了科隆事件。广场运动过后，出现了性的问题。2011年的阿拉伯革命起初的确激起了一股热情，但后来，激情消逝了。这些运动变得看上去没那么完美，甚至显现出丑陋：首先，它们未能触及思想、文化、宗教或社会准则，特别是和性有关的准则。革命并不意味着现代化。
The attacks on Western women by Arab migrants in Cologne, Germany, on New Year’s Eve evoked the harassment of women in Tahrir Square itself during the heady days of the Egyptian revolution. The reminder has led people in the West to realize that one of the great miseries plaguing much of the so-called Arab world, and the Muslim world more generally, is its sick relationship with women. In some places, women are veiled, stoned and killed; at a minimum, they are blamed for sowing disorder in the ideal society. In response, some European countries have taken to producing guides of good conduct to refugees and migrants.
新年前夜，德国科隆的阿拉伯移民袭击了西方女性。这让人们回想起，在埃及革命如火如荼的日子里，解放广场上的女性遭受骚扰的情形。此事提醒了西方民众，促使他们意识到，困扰“阿拉伯世界”及更广大的穆斯林世界的很多地区的一大问题，是那里与女性的病态关系。在一些地方，女性要佩戴面纱，会遭遇石刑、被处死。她们最少也会被归咎于在理想社会里埋下混乱的种子。对此，一些欧洲国家甚至制作了面向难民和移民的良好品行指南。
Sex is a complex taboo, arising, in places like Algeria, Tunisia, Syria or Yemen, out of the ambient conservatism’s patriarchal culture, the Islamists’ new, rigorist codes and the discreet puritanism of the region’s various socialisms. That makes a good combination for obstructing desire or guilt-tripping and marginalizing those who feel any. And it’s a far cry from the delicious licentiousness of the writings of the Muslim golden age, like Sheikh Nafzawi’s “The Perfumed Garden of Sensual Delight,” which tackled eroticism and the Kama Sutra without any hang-ups.
性是一个复杂的禁忌。在阿尔及利亚、突尼斯、叙利亚或也门等地，这一禁忌源自无处不在的保守主义男权文化、伊斯兰派严厉的新法规和该地区形态各异的社会主义推崇的清心寡欲。一方面是遏制欲望，另一方面是让那些有丝毫的欲望人背负罪恶感并被边缘化，而这一禁忌让二者实现了完美的结合。它和穆斯林黄金时代那些充满诱人性爱描写的著作相去甚远，比如谢赫纳夫扎维(Sheikh Nafzawi)撰写的《芳香四溢的感官乐园》(The Perfumed Garden of Sensual Delight)不加掩饰地描绘了情欲，并直白地给出了性爱指南。
Today sex is a great paradox in many countries of the Arab world: One acts as though it doesn’t exist, and yet it determines everything that’s unspoken. Denied, it weighs on the mind by its very concealment. Although women are veiled, they are at the center of our connections, exchanges and concerns.
眼下，在阿拉伯世界的很多国家，性是一个严重的悖论：人们表现得好像它不存在似的，但它却主宰着未说出口的一切。尽管遭到否认，却也正是它的隐秘影响着大家的思想。女性佩戴了面纱，但她们却是我们联络、交流和担忧的核心。
Women are a recurrent theme in daily discourse, because the stakes they personify — for manliness, honor, family values — are great. In some countries, they are allowed access to the public sphere only if they renounce their bodies: To let them go uncovered would be to uncover the desire that the Islamist, the conservative and the idle youth feel and want to deny. Women are seen as a source of destabilization — short skirts trigger earthquakes, some say — and are respected only when defined by a property relationship, as the wife of X or the daughter of Y.
女性主题常会出现在日常讨论中，因为在男子气概、荣誉和家庭价值方面，她们代表着重要的意义。在一些国家，她们只有唾弃自己的身体，才能获准进入公共领域：让她们暴露一部分身体，就是让伊斯兰派、保守派和无所事事的年轻人感受到却又想否认的欲望裸露在外。女性被视作祸水——有人说短裙会引发地震——只有用一种财产关系来定义她们，贴上某人的妻子或某人的女儿的标签，她们才会得到尊重。
These contradictions create unbearable tensions. Desire has no outlet, no outcome; the couple is no longer a space of intimacy, but a concern of the whole group. The sexual misery that results can descend into absurdity and hysteria. Here, too, one hopes to experience love, but the mechanisms of love — encounters, seduction, flirting — are prevented: Women are watched, we obsess over their virginity, the morality police patrols. Some even pay surgeons to repair broken hymens.
这些矛盾造就了难以忍受的张力。欲望无处发泄，也无法产生好的结果。伴侣不再属于亲密关系的范畴，而是整个群体关心的对象。由此导致的性苦闷可能会逐渐发展到荒唐可笑、歇斯底里的程度。在这里，人们也希望体验到爱，但获得爱的途径——邂逅、诱惑、调情——却被阻止了：女性被盯得死死的，我们执着于她们的贞洁，还有道德警察巡逻。一些人甚至出钱让医生修补破裂的处女膜。
In some of Allah’s lands, the war on women and on couples has the air of an inquisition. During the summer in Algeria, brigades of Salafists and local youths worked up by the speeches of radical imams and Islamist TV preachers go out to monitor female bodies, especially those of women bathers at the beach. The police hound couples, even married ones, in public spaces. Gardens are off-limits to strolling lovers. Benches are sawed in half to prevent people from sitting close together.
在信奉安拉的部分地区，对女性和出双入对者发起的战争给人一种宗教裁判所的感觉。在阿尔及利亚的夏季，会有成群的萨拉菲派及当地年轻人受到伊玛目和电视上的伊斯兰派传道者的鼓动，去监视女性的身体，特别是那些去海边游泳的女性。警方会在公共场所盘查出双入对的人，即便是已婚夫妇。情侣无法在花园散步。长凳被从中间锯开，以防止有人坐得太近。
One result is that people fantasize about the trappings of another world: either the West, with its display of immodesty and lust, or the Muslim paradise and its virgins.
这么做的后果之一是，人们会幻想另一个世界的温柔乡：要么是放浪形骸的西方，要么是穆斯林天堂和那里的处女。
It’s a choice perfectly illustrated by the offerings of the Arab media. Theologians are all the rage on television and so are the Lebanese singers and dancers of “Silicone Valley,” who peddle the promise of their unattainable bodies and impossible sex. Clothing is also given to extremes: At one end is the burqa, the orthodox full-body covering; at the other is the hijab moutabaraj (“the veil that reveals”), which combines a head scarf with slim-fit jeans or tight pants. On the beach, the burqini confronts the bikini.
阿拉伯媒体呈现的节目就很好地说明了这种选择。电视上，神学家与黎巴嫩“硅胶谷”（Silicone Valley，硅胶谷是美国色情行业的先驱地，取名有戏谑“硅谷”之意——译注）的歌手和舞者同样大行其道。后者四处宣扬不切实际的体型和性爱构成的幻象。女性的服饰也走向了两极：一头是遮盖全身的正统布尔卡长袍，另一头是那种可以展现曼妙身姿的希贾布，即用头巾搭配修身牛仔裤或紧身短裤。海滩上，几乎覆盖全身的“布基尼”和比基尼形成了鲜明对比。
Sex therapists are few in the Muslim world, and their advice is rarely heeded. So Islamists have a de facto monopoly on talk about the body, sex and love. With the Internet and religious TV shows, some of their speeches have taken monstrous forms, devolving into a kind of porno-Islamism. Religious authorities have issued grotesque fatwas: Making love naked is prohibited; women may not touch bananas; a man can be alone with a female colleague only if she is his milk-mother, and she has nursed him.
在穆斯林世界，性治疗师少之又少，他们的建议也几乎没人理会。因此，讨论身体、性和爱实际上成了伊斯兰派的专利。有了互联网和宗教电视节目，他们的一些演讲呈现出骇人的形式，沦为一种色情伊斯兰主义。宗教机构发布了荒唐的圣令：禁止赤身裸体地做爱；禁止女性接触香蕉；只有对方是其奶妈且喂养过他，男性才能和女性同事单独相处。
Sex is everywhere.
性无处不在。
Especially after death.
特别是在人死后。
Orgasms are acceptable only after marriage — and subject to religious diktats that extinguish desire — or after death. Paradise and its virgins are a pet topic of preachers, who present these otherworldly delights as rewards to those who dwell in the lands of sexual misery. Dreaming about such prospects, suicide bombers surrender to a terrifying, surrealistic logic: The path to orgasm runs through death, not love.
只有在婚后——受制于浇灭欲望的宗教规定——或是死后，性高潮才是可以接受的。天堂和天堂里的处女是备受传道者青睐的话题。他们把这些后世的欢乐，描述成对那些饱受性苦闷折磨的人的回报。怀有这种梦想和希望的自杀式炸弹袭击者接受了一种骇人的超现实逻辑：通向性高潮的必经之路是死亡而非爱情。
The West has long found comfort in exoticism, which exonerates differences. Orientalism has a way of normalizing cultural variations and of excusing any abuses: Scheherazade, the harem and belly dancing exempted some Westerners from considering the plight of Muslim women. But today, with the latest influx of migrants from the Middle East and Africa, the pathological relationship that some Arab countries have with women is bursting onto the scene in Europe.
西方长期用异域风情的说辞来寻找慰藉。它可以让一切差异免受责备。东方主义有办法让各种文化变体正常化，并为一切虐待行为开脱：《一千零一夜》中的舍赫拉查达(Scheherazade)、闺房内的女眷和肚皮舞，使一些西方人不再考虑穆斯林女性面临的困境。但如今，随着中东和非洲移民最近的涌入，一些阿拉伯国家与女性的病态关系在欧洲突然显现出来。
What long seemed like the foreign spectacles of faraway places now feels like a clash of cultures playing out on the West’s very soil. Differences once defused by distance and a sense of superiority have become an imminent threat. People in the West are discovering, with anxiety and fear, that sex in the Muslim world is sick, and that the disease is spreading to their own lands.
长久以来看着像是远在异国他乡的陌生景象，现在却感觉像是一场正在西方的领土上展开的文化冲突。一度被距离和优越感稀释的差异，变成了迫在眉睫的威胁。西方民众满心焦虑和担忧地发现，穆斯林世界的性是病态的，而且这种病正在向自己的国家蔓延。