America’s tentative return to the battlefields of Iraq, however reminiscent it is of unfinished American business there, is also a deadly reminder that the Arab world is still trying to sort out the unfinished business of the Ottoman Empire, a century after it collapsed.
美国犹豫地重返伊拉克战场的行动，虽然让人联想起美国在那里未了结的事务，但也给人们一个十足的提醒：在奥斯曼帝国崩溃一个世纪之后，阿拉伯世界仍在试图厘清那个帝国未了结的事务。
After World War I, the region’s Arabs were not allowed a proper foundation on which to build stable, functional nations. And in more recent decades, they have been largely unsuccessful in doing so on their own.
第一次世界大战后，该地区的阿拉伯人没有被给予一个能在其上构建稳定运转国家的合适基础。在更近的几十年中，他们自己的这类尝试基本上都不成功。
Those painful facts are most obvious now in Iraq, where sectarianism has been undoing all of America’s past efforts to forcibly plant a pluralistic democracy in soil made arid by longstanding grievances, inequities, tribal identities and violence.
这些痛苦的事实现在正在伊拉克最明显地表现出来，宗派主义已抵消了美国在那片土地上强行移植多元化民主制度的所有过去的努力，那片土地被长期的积怨和不平等，以及部落认同和暴力变得贫瘠。
The Arab world today is the product of maps drawn by the British diplomat Sir Mark Sykes and his French counterpart François Georges-Picot in 1916, and sanctified at the Treaty of Versailles in 1919. European rule over Arab states that were only nominally independent followed; this left these states struggling with legitimacy ever since. When the Europeans left, they were followed by dictators who talked of nationalism, but failed to convince their own citizens that they were important participants in the nation.
阿拉伯世界今天的格局，是英国外交官马克·西克斯爵士(Sir Mark Sykes)和其法国同行弗朗索瓦·乔治-皮科(François Georges-Picot)于1916年所绘版图的产物，这一格局被1919年的凡尔赛条约合法化。接下来是欧洲对仅在名义上独立的阿拉伯国家的统治；让这些国家自那时起就为合法性问题而斗争。欧洲人走后，随之而来的是独裁者们，他们大谈民族主义，但却未能说服自己的国民，他们是国家事务的重要参与者。
That was because the arbitrary boundaries had left these new Arab states open to perpetual internal clashes based on rivalries among tribes and religious sects. Their leaders spoke the language of modern nationalism, but their states never quite united. So they turned to domination by one tribe or sect over others.
这是因为随意划定的边界让这些新的阿拉伯国家面临持续不断的内部冲突，冲突来自部落和宗派之间的争夺。这些国家的领导人虽然讲着现代民族主义的语言，但他们的国家从来没有完全统一。所以，他们转向用一个部落或宗派统治其他部落和宗派的方法。
The Ottomans, by contrast, knew how to manage diversity. Their decentralized model embraced a rudimentary pluralism that saw politics as the pursuit of a workable balance between differing tribes and religious communities. More often than they do now, these communities could tolerate and coexist with one another, despite differences.
与此相比，奥斯曼帝国反而知道如何管理多样化。他们的多中心模式奉行了一种原始的多元性，把政治作为不同的部落和宗派社区寻求一种可行平衡的事业。尽管存在分歧，但这些社区那时比现在能更多地容纳他人，让彼此共存。
In the failure of the Arab Spring and the ascendance of Islamist militancy, we are seeing a new explosion of tribal and sectarian differences. This is the real root of the challenge posed by nonstate movements that seek to form shadow governments in ungoverned territories. We have seen them before in Lebanon, Libya, the Palestinian territories.
在阿拉伯之春失败、伊斯兰好战势力渐占优势之际，我们正在看到部落和宗派分歧的新爆发。这是非国家运动所构成挑战的真正根源，这些运动企图在无人管治的地区形成影子政府。我们以前看到过这种情况，在黎巴嫩、利比亚，以及巴勒斯坦地区。
The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, though it feels frighteningly different and more toxic to outsiders, is only the latest example. And it is not entirely original. The last time an alliance of tribes and Islamic zealots changed the map of the Arab world was in 1925, when Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud’s puritanical Ikhwan warriors swept across the Arabian Peninsula to create a new Islamist country that still bears his name.
伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国虽然让外人感到很可怕，而且毒害性更大，但它只不过是一个最新的例子，而且不是完全独创的。一些部落和伊斯兰狂热分子组成的联盟上一次改变了阿拉伯世界的版图是在1925年，当时阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹·伊本·沙特(Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud)的清教徒式的伊赫万(Ikhwan)勇士席卷了阿拉伯半岛，创建了一个新的伊斯兰国家，这个国家仍以他的名字命名。
At the end of imperial rule, the dominant idea in the Arab world was a unifying Arab nationalism. It captured the popular imagination, but Egypt, Iraq and Syria paid it only lip service as they struggled to mold national identities out of their own varied sects and tribes. When Arab nationalism eventually lost its luster, another imagined idea, Islamism, replaced it. Though it seems larger than any one Arab state, it unites only so far. Sunnis and Shiites agree on Islamic unity, but not on whose history, theology and laws should define it, or on which sect should lead it.
帝国主义统治走到尽头时，在阿拉伯世界占主导地位的想法是统一的阿拉伯民族主义。这个想法让民众为之神往，但只得到埃及、伊拉克和叙利亚的口头支持，因为他们正努力在他们不同的宗派和部落基础上塑造各自的国家认同。当阿拉伯民族主义最终失去了光泽之后，另一种想象中的想法，既伊斯兰主义取代了它。虽然这个想法似乎比任何一个阿拉伯国家都大，但它的凝聚力仅此而已。逊尼派和什叶派虽然都接受伊斯兰团结，但在重大问题上有分歧：哪个教派的历史、宗教理论和法规应该定义伊斯兰教，哪个宗派是其领导。
Today, it is a blend of Islamism and nationalism that defines Arab politics. This explains the ferocity of the Sunni-Shiite split. Resurgent religious identities are pushing against the bounds of nation-states that were conceived assuming the dominance of secular nationalism.
如今，界定阿拉伯政治的是伊斯兰主义和民族主义的一种混合。这能解释逊尼派和什叶派分裂的残暴。复兴的宗教认同正在冲击着民族国家的限定范围，设想这个范围的基础是世俗民族主义占主导地位的假定。
For most of the last century, this tension was kept at bay by dictatorship, in a regional order most recently backed by the United States. But now, both Arab dictatorship and the order that sustained it have lost their moorings — first because of America’s state-shattering in Iraq, and then because of popular rebellions. Now the whole post-World War I regional order has come under question from extremists who blend Islam with populism, nationalism and anti-imperialism. The West and its Arab allies are merely playing catch-up, and not very well.
在上个世纪的大部分时间，独裁统治防止了这种矛盾的恶化，美国直到最近以前一直支持那种地区秩序。但如今，阿拉伯独裁政权以及让其得以维持的秩序都失去了支柱，首先是因为美国对伊拉克国家的极大打击，再就是人民的反抗。现在，整个一战后的地区秩序受到极端分子的质疑，他们把民粹主义、民族主义和反帝国主义融入了伊斯兰教。西方国家及其阿拉伯盟友在努力赶上来，但做得还不好。
Today, the Obama administration would prefer to leave the Middle East’s incomprehensible politics and insoluble problems to the locals to sort out.
如今，奥巴马政府宁愿把中东难以理解的政治和无法解决的问题留给当地人去厘清。
But what is unfolding is not all that alien to our knowledge of history, nor is it entirely a product of Arab history and culture. This is a process that Europe set in motion a century ago. The new nationalisms that followed the Great War took firm root only in places like Europe, where the boundaries of new nation-states were better matched to natural ethnic or linguistic divisions.
但是，正在上演的事情对我们的历史知识来说并不陌生，也不完全是阿拉伯历史和文化的产物。这是欧洲在一个世纪前开启的一个进程。随着伟大战争(the Great War)而来的新民族主义只是在像欧洲这样的地方深深扎了根，因为欧洲新兴民族国家的国界更符合自然的种族或语言的划分。