BUENOS AIRES — After nearly eight years in office, President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner of Argentina will stand down in a few months. But even as voters weigh their options for a new leader, and look ahead to a change of direction for the country, their departing president has other plans.
布宜诺斯艾利斯——在担任阿根廷总统近八年后，克里斯蒂娜·费尔南德斯·德基什内尔(Cristina Fernández de Kirchner)将于几个月后卸任。尽管选民们还在权衡新领导人的人选，期待国家能转变方向，他们即将离任的总统却另有打算。
Far from relinquishing power after she leaves office in December, Mrs. Kirchner appears to be seeking to retain influence from behind the scenes.
基什内尔将于12月卸任。但她似乎正在寻求保持其幕后影响力，而非下台后交出权力。
Argentines vote on Aug. 9 in open primary elections to decide the presidential nominee of each major party or alliance. To avoid splintering her party, the Front for Victory, Mrs. Kirchner, 62, effectively predetermined its nominee this month by endorsing Daniel Scioli, the governor of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina’s largest and most populous.
阿根廷将在8月9日举行总统初选公开投票，决定各主要政党或联盟的总统候选人。本月，为了防止自己所在的胜利阵线党(Front for Victory)内部分裂，62岁的基什内尔相当于预先确定了党内候选人。基什内尔支持的是阿根廷面积最大、人口最多的布宜诺斯艾利斯省省长丹尼尔·肖利(Daniel Scioli)。
Mrs. Kirchner “is trying to continue as leader even though she is leaving government,” said Rosendo Fraga, an Argentine political analyst. Mr. Scioli, 58, needed Mrs. Kirchner’s endorsement to secure the support of the Front for Victory’s voters, who make up about 30 percent of the electorate. But that endorsement appears to have come at a price.
基什内尔“正试图继续担任领导人，尽管她马上要离任了，”阿根廷政治分析人士罗森多·弗拉加(Rosendo Fraga)说。58岁的肖利需要基什内尔的认可，才能获得投票给胜利阵线的民众的支持。这些人占了全部选民的约30%。然而，基什内尔的支持似乎是有代价的。
Mr. Scioli has clashed in the past with Mrs. Kirchner’s supporters, who see him as being too close to corporate interests. Just a few months ago, he was promoting business-friendly policies and greater dialogue between the government and the private sector, a gentle shift from the interventionist policies of Mrs. Kirchner.
过去，肖利曾和基什内尔的支持者发生过冲突。他们认为肖利太接近企业利益。就在几个月前，肖利还在宣传亲商政策，鼓励政府和私营部门进一步开展对话。这一做法同基什内尔的干涉主义政策略有差别。
The president’s populist political movement, known as Kirchnerismo, has driven the expansion of social benefits, and a string of nationalizations, including pension funds of an oil company and an airline. These and other policies, including heavily taxing agricultural exports and enacting a law to curb media conglomerates, have pitted Mrs. Kirchner’s government against Argentina’s business establishment. She has also refused to pay off foreign hedge funds, which are suing the country over debts that remain unpaid after a default in 2002.
阿根廷总统推行的民粹主义政治运动基什内尔主义(Kirchnerismo)推动了社会福利的扩大及一系列国有化，其中包括一家石油公司和航空公司的养老基金。还有其他一些政策，包括对出口农产品征收重税，并通过了一部限制媒体集团公司的法律。这一切都将基什内尔政府与阿根廷商界权贵摆在了对立面。基什内尔还拒绝偿付外国对冲基金。这些基金正在就阿根廷2002年债务违约后一直未偿还债务一事提起诉讼。
Mrs. Kirchner had previously expressed some support for another candidate, Florencio Randazzo, the minister of interior and transportation, who espoused absolute loyalty to Kirchnerismo.
之前，基什内尔还表示过对另一位候选人、阿根廷内政和交通部部长弗洛伦西奥·兰达佐(Florencio Randazzo)的支持。他是基什内尔主义的坚定拥护者。
But that all changed recently as Mr. Scioli sought Mrs. Kirchner’s support, and apparently acquiesced to her demands. In recent statements, he has called for the government to maintain its central role in the economy and has hinted that he would not be conciliatory to corporations or the foreign hedge funds either.
但是，最近情况发生了变化。肖利寻求基什内尔的支持，并且似乎默许了她的要求。在最近的声明中，肖利敦促政府保持在经济中发挥中心作用。他也暗示自己不会与企业或外国对冲基金和解。
He has even modified the color of his campaign posters, merging the orange he has used in the past with the traditional blue of the Front for Victory.
他甚至还改变了竞选海报的颜色，将原先用的橙色同胜利阵线的传统蓝色融合在了一起。
“Scioli is going to be completely under the thumb of Cristina,” said Melanie Russo, a 22-year-old university student, reflecting a preference here for using Mrs. Kirchner’s first name.
“肖利将会完全听命于克里斯蒂娜，”22岁的大学生梅勒尼·拉索(Melanie Russo)说。她只说了基什内尔的名字，阿根廷人都喜欢这么称呼她。
Mr. Scioli also placated Mrs. Kirchner by selecting Carlos Zannini, one of her close aides, as his running mate. As legal secretary to the president, Mr. Zannini reviews bills and executive orders, and he is widely believed to have influenced the direction of Kirchnerismo since 2003, when he was appointed by Néstor Kirchner, Mrs. Kirchner’s late husband and predecessor.
为了安抚基什内尔，肖利选择了她的亲信卡洛斯·詹尼尼(Carlos Zannini)作他的竞选搭档。詹尼尼是总统的法律秘书，负责审阅议案和行政命令。外界普遍认为，自2003年被基什内尔的丈夫、已故前总统内斯托尔·基什内尔(Néstor Kirchne)任命后，他就影响着基什内尔主义的走向。
“Scioli’s doing everything he can just to be president,” said Maria Victoria Murillo, a professor of political science at Columbia University who has written about the future of Kirchnerismo. “Once that’s achieved, we’ll see if he moves to build his own power base independent of Cristina. But she is trying to limit him.”
“肖利为了能当上总统正在竭尽所能，”哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)政治学教授玛丽亚·维多利亚·穆利洛(Maria Victoria Murillo)说。她曾撰文预测基什内尔主义的未来。“一旦他当上了总统，我们就会知道他是否开始建立独立于克里斯蒂娜的权力基础。不过她正试图限制他。”
The Argentine Constitution bars Mrs. Kirchner from running for a third consecutive term this year, although she will be allowed to run again in four years. Before Mr. Kirchner’s death in 2010 at 60, the couple had expected to prolong their stay in power by swapping places.
阿根廷宪法禁止基什内尔今年争取第三次连任，但四年后她可以再次参选。2010年，60岁的内斯托尔·基什内尔去世。在那之前，人们曾预计这对夫妇会通过轮换的方式来延长掌权时间。
Now many people view Mr. Scioli as a stopgap in Mrs. Kirchner’s plan to resume the presidency.
现在，很多人把肖利看作基什内尔重登总统之位计划中的一个临时替代者。
“The president will continue to be the figurehead of Kirchnerismo, so it’s naturally an option to contemplate,” said Eduardo Jozami, 75, an author and human rights activist who is a prominent supporter of the Front for Victory, referring to the hypothetical plan.
“现任总统仍将是基什内尔运动（阿根廷国内的平民政治运动）的名义领袖，所以这自然是一个可以予以考虑的选项，”75岁的作家和人权活动家爱德华多·裘札米(Eduardo Jozami)提到这个假设计划时说道，他是胜利阵线的重要支持者。
Crucially, Mrs. Kirchner’s popularity is on the rise. Her approval rating at the end of May was 40 percent, according to Management and Fit, a Buenos Aires polling company, up from 30 percent in February, when she was in the depths of a political crisis after the mysterious death of a federal prosecutor. The poll included interviews with 2,400 people nationwide and the margin of sampling error was 2 percentage points. Even if Mr. Scioli has won Mrs. Kirchner’s endorsement, it may prove a Pyrrhic victory, analysts said, because it could hurt him among voters who want change. Mr. Scioli had already successfully courted some of those voters on his own.
关键是，基什内尔夫人的人气不断上升。一家叫做管理与匹配(Management and Fit)的布宜诺斯艾利斯民调公司的数据显示，她的支持率在5月底是40%，在2月份，基什内尔夫人的支持率为30%，当时她在一名联邦调查官神秘死亡后身陷政治危机。调查在全国范围内对2400人进行采访，抽样误差为两个百分点。但即便肖利先生赢得了基什内尔夫人的认可，他也有可能得不偿失，分析家说，因为这可能让他失去那些想要有所改变的选民。肖利自己本已成功地赢得了一部分这样的选民的支持。
“Scioli’s not making the decisions anymore; we have to start looking for something new,” said Luis Ulloa, 32, a municipal government administrative worker. Mr. Ulloa said he was now placing faith in Mauricio Macri, the leader of Republican Proposal, a center-right party, who is the opposition front-runner.
“肖利现在已不再作出决策；我们不得不另寻他人，”32岁的市政府行政人员路易斯·乌略亚说自己现在寄希望于毛里西奥·马克里(Mauricio Macri)。马克里是中右翼政党共和提案党(Republican Proposal)的领袖，也是反对党中呼声最高的人。
Mr. Macri, who is the mayor of the city of Buenos Aires, appeals to many of those voters who believe Mrs. Kirchner’s economic policies have isolated the country and who see her as imperious.
马克里是布宜诺斯艾利斯的市长，他对很多选民颇具吸引力。这些选民认为，基什内尔的经济政策让该国变得孤立，而且她为人专横。
To help attract foreign investors, Mr. Macri is offering less state interference in the economy, and has said he will settle with the hedge funds and eliminate unpopular currency controls. He has also promised to delegate more power to cabinet ministers.
为了帮助吸引外国投资者，马克里提出，要减少国家对经济的干预，而且曾说过，他将与对冲基金达成协议，并消除不受欢迎的货币控制。他也承诺将交给内阁大臣更多的权力。
It is not uncommon for Argentine presidents to attempt to influence the leadership of their successors, but they fail just as often. Notably, President Eduardo Duhalde, who stepped down in 2003, found it difficult to influence Mr. Kirchner, his successor.
阿根廷总统常常试图影响他们的后继者，但几乎没人能成功做到这一点。特别是2003年下台的爱德华多·杜阿尔德(Eduardo Duhalde)总统，他最终发现，很难影响他的继任者内斯托尔·基什内尔。
“Duhalde wanted to do with Néstor Kirchner what Cristina Kirchner now wants to do with Scioli,” said Federico Finchelstein, an Argentine historian at the New School for Social Research in New York. “Duhalde failed and, if recent history prevails, Cristina Kirchner will also fail.”
“杜阿尔德当初想对内斯托尔·基什内尔做的正是克里斯蒂娜·基什内尔现在想对肖利做的，”纽约社会研究新学院(New School for Social Research)阿根廷历史学家费德里克·芬彻斯坦(Federico Finchelstein)说道。“杜阿尔德失败了，如果这算前车之鉴，克里斯蒂娜·基什内尔也将失败。”
But even if Mr. Scioli wins the presidency, Mrs. Kirchner is likely to preserve considerable influence over his government through her loyalists in Congress.
但是，即便肖利当选总统，基什内尔也可能通过她在国会中的效忠者来对肖利政府施加比较大的影响。
The Front for Victory recently created a list of congressional candidates made up of politicians who have risen from the ranks of La Cámpora, a political youth organization loyal to Mrs. Kirchner.
胜利阵线最近建立了一个国会候选人的名单，由出身于“坎波拉”(La Cámpora)的政治家们组成。坎波拉是忠实于基什内尔的一个青年政治组织。
Among the candidates are Máximo Kirchner, 38, her son, who has never held elected office; Axel Kicillof, her economy minister; and Eduardo de Pedro, her chief of staff.
候选人中包括基什内尔之子，38岁的马克西莫·基什内尔(Máximo Kirchner)，他还从未担任过民选职位；她的经济部长阿克塞尔·吉斯罗夫(Axel Kicillof)；还有她的幕僚长爱德华多·德·佩德罗(Eduardo de Pedro)。
Reflecting expectations of Mrs. Kirchner’s influence beyond her presidency, some of her supporters recently gathered on a patio of the presidential palace, singing “The woman boss is not leaving.”
她的一些支持者们最近聚集在总统府的露台上，唱着“女老板不离开”，反应出了对基什内尔在离任后仍保持影响的期望。
For many Argentines, that would be a welcome situation.
对很多阿根廷人来说，那将是一个乐于接受的情况。