CAIRO — The Arab states said on Sunday that they had agreed to form a combined military force to counter both Iranian influence and Islamist extremism, a gesture many analysts attributed in large part to their drive for more independence from Washington.
开罗——阿拉伯国家周日表示，它们同意成立一支联军对抗伊朗势力和伊斯兰极端主义。很多分析人士表示，阿拉伯国家采取这种姿态在很大程度上是因为它们希望不要过多地牵扯华盛顿。
The agreement came as American and other Western diplomats in Lausanne, Switzerland, were racing to beat a self-imposed deadline of Tuesday to reach a deal with Iran that would restrict its nuclear program in exchange for the removal of economic sanctions. In response, Saudi Arabia and other American allies in the region have made clear that they are seeking to bolster independent regional security measures because they see the proposed accord as a betrayal of Washington’s commitment to their security.
阿拉伯国家达成一致时，美国及其他西方国家的外交官正在瑞士洛桑争分夺秒，赶在自己设定的最后期限周二之前，与伊朗达成协议，该协议将会限制伊朗的核计划，但会解除对伊朗的经济制裁作为交换。对此，沙特阿拉伯及美国在该地区的其他盟友明确地回应道，它们力图加强独立的地区安全举措，因为它们认为西方提出的这份协议背叛了华盛顿方面维持该地区安全的承诺。
Regardless of Iran’s nuclear program, they complain, the deal would do nothing to stop Iran from seeking to extend its influence around the region by backing favored factions, as it has done in Lebanon, Iraq, Bahrain and Yemen.
它们抱怨称，姑且不论伊朗的核计划，该协议无法阻止伊朗通过支持他们偏爱的派系，设法扩大伊朗在该地区的势力，就像它在黎巴嫩、伊拉克、巴林及也门所做的那样。
Many of the Arab nations, including Egypt, Jordan and most of the Persian Gulf monarchies, have thrown their support behind a Saudi Arabia-led campaign of airstrikes to counter advances by the Iranian-backed Houthi movement in Yemen; Washington is providing only intelligence and logistical support, but Saudi Arabia is leading the bombing while Egypt, with the largest Arab army, has pledged to send ground troops “if necessary.”
很多阿拉伯国家，包括埃及、约旦及大多数波斯湾君主制国家，都对沙特阿拉伯牵头的空袭行动给予了支持，以图击退伊朗支持下的胡塞(Houthi)武装在也门的攻势。华盛顿只提供情报及后勤支持，但沙特阿拉伯却在领导轰炸行动，埃及承诺“在必要的时候”派遣地面部队。埃及拥有阿拉伯世界规模最大的军队。
How the agreement, announced at a meeting of the League of Arab States in Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt, will be implemented is not known. Arab military chiefs are expected to work out more of the details. Officials of the Arab League said the leadership of the combined forces, including the question of whether there might be a single command or a coalition of national units, was still under discussion. Each country’s participation is expected to be voluntary.
这项共识是阿拉伯国家联盟(League of Arab States)在埃及沙姆沙伊赫举行会议时宣布的，但目前尚不清楚协议会如何实施。阿拉伯国家的军方将领预计会制定细节。阿盟官员表示，联军的领导架构仍在讨论当中，包括应该设立一个司令部统一指挥，还是让各国部队联合作战的问题。根据预期，每一个国家的参与都是自愿的。
But the proposal gained credibility because it was announced in part by the Egyptian president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, the former general who led the military takeover here in 2013.
但这项提议赢得了信赖，因为它部分上是由埃及总统阿卜杜勒·法塔赫-塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)宣布的。曾担任军方将领的塞西于2013年领导军队接管了埃及政权。
“The challenges facing our national Arab security are grave, and we have succeeded in diagnosing the reasons behind it,” Mr. Sisi said, without specifying those reasons. The meeting, he added, was “pumping the blood of hope in the arteries of Arab cooperation.”
塞西表示，“我们阿拉伯民族面临着非常严峻的安全挑战，我们已经成功地确定了背后的原因，”但他没有详细说明这些原因。他还表示，此次会议“为阿拉伯国家的合作注入了希望，就像动脉里注入了鲜血”。
Egypt has long considered itself the shield and protector of the oil-rich but sparsely populated gulf monarchies like Saudi Arabia. Yet Mr. Sisi has an especially close relationship with the Saudis and their gulf allies because they supported his ouster of President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood in 2013. The gulf monarchies have contributed tens of billions in financial assistance to Egypt since then, including new pledges of an additional $12 billion announced this month.
埃及长期以来认为自己是盛产石油、但人口稀少的海湾君主制国家（如沙特阿拉伯）的保护国。但塞西之所以与沙特阿拉伯及其海湾盟友关系极为密切，是因为他们支持他在2013年推翻时任总统、穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)领导人穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的行动。之后，海湾君主制国家向埃及提供了数百亿美元的经济援助，包括本月宣布的新承诺中提到的120亿美元（约合750亿元人民币）。
Last year, Mr. Sisi also allowed jets from the United Arab Emirates to take off from Egypt for airstrikes against an Islamist-allied political faction in Libya. This year, the Egyptian Air Force carried out a strike of its own in Darnah, in eastern Libya, in retaliation for the beheading of a group of Egyptian Christians by an arm of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. Both Egypt and its gulf allies remain acutely concerned about Libya’s civil strife and the Islamist groups that have flourished as the government and other national institutions have crumbled.
去年，塞西还允许阿拉伯联合酋长国的飞机从埃及起飞，对利比亚境内一个与伊斯兰派结盟的政治派系实施空袭。今年，埃及空军自己在利比亚东部的德尔纳发动了空袭，以此对一群埃及基督徒被伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的一个分支斩首的事件予以报复，伊斯兰国又名ISIS或ISIL。埃及和它在海湾地区的盟友仍在强烈关注利比亚的内乱，它们也同样在关注伊斯兰派团体。随着政府和其他国家机构的崩溃，此类团体纷纷涌现。
The idea of a joint military force “has been there before but not so seriously,” said Gamal Abdel Gawad Soltan, a political scientist at the American University in Cairo. He noted that Arab joint defense treaties date to 1950 and a joint military command was previously formed for a time in the mid-1960s. That was during the era of Pan-Arab nationalism, when Arab governments joined forces against Israel. That vision ended in the Arab-Israeli War of 1967, with a humiliating defeat.
开罗美国大学(American University)的政治学者贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒·加瓦德·苏丹(Gamal Abdel Gawad Soltan)表示，组建一支联军的想法“以前就有过，但没这么认真”。他指出，阿拉伯共同防御条约早在1950年就签署了，而且1960年代中期一度还成立过一个联合军事司令部。当时泛阿拉伯民族主义思潮流行，阿拉伯国家的政府正联合对抗以色列。但这种愿景在1967年的第三次中东战争(Arab-Israeli War of 1967)结束后戛然而止，在那场战争中阿拉伯国家战败蒙羞。
“It is the renewal of an old idea,” Mr. Soltan said, “but this time the level of seriousness looks higher, even if we do not know yet whether the outcome this time will be different than in the past.”
“这是重提以前的旧想法，”苏丹说，“但这一次的认真程度看上去高一些，虽然我们还不知道这一次的结果，会不会和过去有所不同。”
Speaking at the meeting in Sharm el Sheikh, Nabil el-Araby, the secretary general of the Arab League, vowed that the Saudi-led airstrikes against the Houthi movement would continue until the Houthis had surrendered, apparently leaving little hope for negotiating a prompt end to the violence.
在沙姆沙伊赫的会议上发表讲话时，阿盟秘书长纳比勒·阿拉比(Nabil el-Araby)宣称，由沙特主导的打击胡塞组织的空袭，将一直持续到胡塞投降，看来几乎没留下通过谈判迅速结束暴力的希望。
The campaign “will continue until all Houthi militias retreat and disarm, and a strong unified Yemen returns,” he said, declaring that the intervention had saved Yemen from sliding into the abyss.
他说，这场战役“将一直持续，直到所有胡塞民兵撤退并放下武器，也门恢复强大、统一”，并宣称此次干预挽救了也门，使其免于滑入深渊。