A thick slab of grass-fed sirloin dripping in its own juices: so many Argentines consider such a feast a birthright to be enjoyed regularly that one president in the 1990s quipped to an American magazine, “Tell your readers, ‘Don’t come to my country if they’re vegetarian.’ ”
来自草饲牛上腰的一大厚片滴着原汁的西冷牛排：经常享用这种大餐被如此之多的阿根廷人认为是与生俱来的权利，以至于在20世纪90年代，一位阿根廷总统曾对一本美国杂志嘲讽地说，“告诉你的读者们，‘如果是素食主义者就别来我的国家。’”
But tastes change, even here.
但即使是在这里，口味也在改变。
Beef consumption in this red-meat colossus has decreased so much over the decades that the nation recently fell from its perch as the world’s top per capita consumer of beef, a title Argentine ranchers are fighting to regain from their tiny neighbor, Uruguay. In another jolt, a study warned that pizzerias could soon outnumber steakhouses in this city.
在这个红肉大国，牛肉消费量在过去几十年间下降了许多，使得这个国家最近从人均牛肉消费世界第一的高位上跌了下来，阿根廷牧场主们正在努力从其小邻国乌拉圭手中夺回这个桂冠。另一个惊人的消息是，一项研究显示，这座城市中的比萨饼店数量将很快超过牛排餐厅。
As if that were not enough to rattle the national psyche, Argentina slipped into 11th place, behind countries like New Zealand and Mexico, in the global ranking of beef exporters this year, prompting solemn reactions like one in a major newspaper that declared it “the end of a reign.”
如果这些还不足以让这个国家惊心动魄的话，那么请看：阿根廷已经在今年全球牛肉出口排名中下滑到第11位，落后于新西兰和墨西哥等国，这引起一些郑重反应，比如一家主要报纸宣布“一个时代结束了”。
“We live, at this moment, immersed in shame,” the writer Diego Vecino said in a recent 4,000-plus-word magazine article that explored declining beef consumption. “In the last few years, our Argentine national identity has been roughed up as never before,” he lamented, in a slightly tongue-in-cheek fashion. “The ritual of the barbecue persists, but in many cases under the kitsch glow of a retro experience.”
“此刻，我们沉浸在羞耻之中，”作家迭戈·贝西诺(Diego Vecino)在最近的一篇探索牛肉消费下降的四千多字的杂志文章中写道。“在最近几年里，我们阿根廷的国家认同感受到了前所未有的打击，”他以略带玩笑的风格哀叹道，“烧烤的习惯仍在继续，但在许多情况下，带有一种复古体验的庸俗之光。”
It is hard to overstate beef’s centrality to the Argentine way of life for more than a century. Novels and poems extol the art of cattle ranching on the vast pampas, long a touchstone of national pride. Cafes in this city bulge with diners feasting on steaks washed down with glasses of malbec. At lunchtime, it is still possible to see construction crews preparing slabs of beef on makeshift grills, the smoky smell of this ritual permeating their work sites.
毫不夸张地说，一个多世纪以来，牛肉是阿根廷生活方式的中心。小说和诗歌赞颂着辽阔大草原上的放牧艺术，长期以来这是检验民族自豪感的标准。这座城市的小餐馆中充满了享用牛排的顾客，他们就着一杯杯马尔贝克葡萄酒狼吞虎咽。在午餐时间，仍能看到建筑工人在临时烤架上制备一块块牛肉，这个习惯散发出的烘烤烟味弥漫在他们的建筑工地上。
Argentines ate about 129 pounds of beef a person last year, far surpassing Americans, who mustered a mere 57.5 pounds by comparison. But Argentina’s current level is a pale shadow of its peak: 222 pounds of beef for every man, woman and child, achieved in 1956.
去年，阿根廷平均每人吃掉约129磅（约合58.5公斤）牛肉，远远超过美国的人均消费，相比之下，后者只有57.5磅。但阿根廷当前的水平远不如其顶峰时期：在1956年，平均每个男人、女人和孩子一年能吃下222磅牛肉。
Reasons vary for these doldrums. Beef prices have surged with inflation, but cattlemen contend that government price controls aimed at preventing domestic beef consumption from falling further have wreaked havoc by making it costly to maintain large herds. Others, eying China’s rising demand for grains over the last decade, say it is simply more profitable to farm soybeans than to raise cattle.
这种低迷情况有着各种各样的原因。虽然牛肉价格随着通货膨胀而飙升，但牧民们认为，旨在防止国内牛肉消费进一步下滑的政府价格管制已经造成了严重损害，因为这让维持大规模牛群的成本过高。看到中国在过去十年里不断增长的谷物需求，其他人说，种植大豆明显比养牛更能盈利。 “We are witnessing a historic decline in our beef industry,” said Ernesto Ambrosetti, chief economist of the Argentine Rural Society, the country’s largest farming association. “Now our smaller neighbors, Paraguay and Uruguay, have passed us” in the export rankings.
“我们在见证本国牛肉产业的历史性下降，”该国最大的农业组织阿根廷农业协会(Argentine Rural Society)的首席经济学家欧内斯托·阿姆布罗塞蒂(Ernesto Ambrosetti)说。“如今，我们的小邻国巴拉圭和乌拉圭已经（在出口排名上）超过了我们。”
Government officials contend that their policies to lift beef consumption, including export restraints and price controls intended to make the meat more affordable, are turning the tide. Indeed, domestic consumption has recovered slightly from a record low in 2011.
政府官员称，他们旨在提高牛肉消费的政策，包括限制牛肉出口、以及让老百姓买得起牛肉的价格管制，正在扭转局面。的确，国内消费已从2011年的最低点略有反弹。
But while Argentina has experienced swings in beef consumption in the past, some see the latest drops as evidence of a broader paradigm shift: many Argentines are simply opting for a more varied diet.
然而，尽管阿根廷曾在过去经历过牛肉消费的波动，但是一些人把最近的下滑视为一种范围更广的模式转变的证据，因为许多阿根廷人开始选择更加多样化的饮食。
The shift — reflected in a rising demand for foods like poultry, pasta and pizza; a greater awareness of the health risks associated with eating beef; and even the emergence of an insurgent vegetarian dining scene in Buenos Aires — does not sit well with some Argentines.
这种转变反映在对家禽、意大利面条和比萨饼等食物需求量的不断增长上，也反映在对与食用牛肉有关的健康风险的更高认识上，以及在布宜诺斯艾利斯出现的离经叛道的素食主义餐厅上。这种转变让一些阿根廷人坐不住了。
“Beef consumption is threatened by modern trends of healthy eating, mainly the exaltation of what’s natural and ecological, stimulating vegetable consumption,” the Argentine Beef Promotion Institute warned in a 2006 report, warily acknowledging a “new age culture and the appearance of cooking fads incorporating other products.”
阿根廷牛肉促进协会(Argentine Beef Promotion Institute)在2006年的一份报告中警告道，“牛肉消费正受到现代健康饮食趋势的威胁，主要是吹捧自然和生态的东西，这刺激了蔬菜消费。”这份报告忧心忡忡地提到“新时代文化以及包含其他食品的烹饪时尚的出现”。
At Buenos Aires Verde, a vegetarian restaurant with a pastel orange and lime green color scheme, diners can choose from options like patties made from yamani rice and adzuki beans, or cannelloni made with dehydrated fruit and flax seeds.
布宜诺斯艾利斯佛得角(Buenos Aires Verde)是一家素食餐厅，其内部的主色调是柔和的橘黄和酸橙绿。在这里，顾客们可以选择包括亚马尼米和红豆制成的小馅饼，或是由干水果和亚麻籽制成的意大利面卷。
“Argentines are demanding a change,” Mauro Massimino, 33, a vegetarian who owns the restaurant, said as his predominantly svelte clientele ate their meals. “Around five years ago, vegetarianism started to gain traction here, and the growth since has been incredible.”
“阿根廷人在要求变化，”33岁的素食者毛罗·马西米诺(Mauro Massimino)说，他也是这家餐厅的主人，在这里用餐的顾客大都苗条。他说，“大约五年前，素食主义开始在当地形成势头，那以后的增长一直颇为惊人。”
As Argentina’s economy over the past decade recovered from a collapse in 2001, beef prices in the country surged. Struggling with the broader increase in inflation, the authorities in 2006 announced a temporary ban on beef exports in an effort to expand the domestic supply and bring down prices for Argentine consumers.
过去十年里，阿根廷的经济从2001年的崩溃中逐渐恢复，该国的牛肉价格飙升。为了抵制通货膨胀所带来的更广范的价格上涨，当局在2006年宣布暂时禁止牛肉出口，以增加国内的供应，从而降低阿根廷消费者所面对的价格。
Since then, the government has limited beef exports and imposed price controls, moves that ranchers claim are eroding profitability. As losses mounted, a wave of slaughterhouse shutdowns left thousands of people jobless in recent years. Many cattle ranchers have shifted into soybean farming, with the grain exported largely to China where it is used as animal feed.
从那以后，政府限制了牛肉出口并实施价格管制，牧场主们称这些举措导致利润下滑。随着亏损的不断增加，一股屠宰场停工的风潮造成了上千人在近年来失业。许多牛牧场主已经改种大豆，主要出口给中国，用作动物饲料。
Officials have also promoted other types of animal protein, reflecting Argentina's dependence on agribusiness. “It is much more gratifying to eat some grilled pork than to take Viagra,” President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner said in 2010, joking about what she described as the meat’s libido-enhancing qualities while announcing subsidies for the pork industry.
官员还在促进其他种类的动物蛋白消费，反映出阿根廷对大农场经营的依赖。“吃些烤猪肉远比服用伟哥更令人满足，”总统克里斯蒂娜·费尔南德斯·德·基什内尔(Cristina Fernández de Kirchner)在2010年时说。那时她宣布对猪肉业进行补贴，并开玩笑地声称猪肉具有增加性欲的特点。
For many Argentines, how much beef they eat comes down to another factor: price. In the last three years, coveted cuts of cuadril (rump steaks) have jumped in price almost 90 percent, to about $5.80 a pound, said Juan Pagano, a butcher in the neighborhood of Colegiales.
对于许多阿根廷人来说，他们吃多少牛肉还取决于另一个因素：价格。在最近三年里，令人垂涎欲滴的cuadril（臀部牛排）的价格涨了约90%，达到约每磅5.8美元（约合每公斤78.5元人民币），学院区附近的屠夫胡安·帕加诺(Juan Pagano)说。
“It’s unbelievable how the prices have shot up,” said Eduardo González, 48, who cleans industrial water tanks for a living. Buying a relatively cheap and tough cut of beef one recent evening at a supermarket, he said he could no longer afford sirloin.
“价格令人难以置信地暴涨，”以清洁工业水箱为生的48岁的爱德华多·冈萨雷斯(Eduardo González)说。最近的一个傍晚，他在一家超市购买一块相对廉价而比较难嚼的牛肉时说，他已经买不起西冷牛排了。
“But I still try to eat beef four times a week; if I did not, I would die!” he said, with a chuckle. “It is fundamental.”
“但我还是尽量坚持每周吃四次牛肉；如果吃不到，我会死的！”他笑着说，“这是原则问题。”