PORTO ALEGRE, Brazil — An estimated 50,000 Argentines completed the trek to this World Cup city by Wednesday morning. Many of the soccer pilgrims were wearing long faces along with their Lionel Messi jerseys as they roamed the parks and the streets and took in the hazy view of Guaiaba Lake while carrying hand-lettered signs that read, “Compro” (“I’m buying”).
巴西阿雷格里港——据估计，有5万阿根廷人经过长途跋涉，于本周三早上抵达了巴西世界杯的这座比赛城市。在这些足球朝圣者中，很多都穿着莱昂内尔·梅西(Lionel Messi)的10号球衣，拉长着脸，一边在公园和街道漫步，看着盖阿巴湖的朦胧景致，一边举着牌子，上面手书着“Compro”（我要买）。
“It’s shameful; the scalpers are asking for 1,200 to 1,500 dollars for a ticket with a face value of no more than 100,” said Cintia Perri, a young woman from Buenos Aires who had driven 20 hours to get here and spent the night in her car in a nearby camping site.
“真可耻；面值不到100美元（约合人民币600元）的门票，票贩子要价每张1200到1500美元，“年轻的钦蒂亚·佩里(Cintia Perri)说。她来自布宜诺斯艾利斯，驱车20个小时，抵达这里。此后，她待在车上，在附近的露营地里过了一夜。
But Messi would soon lift the mood of his sleep-deprived, ticket-deprived compatriots.
但梅西很快就会让他那些睡眠不足、买不到票的同胞的心情好转起来。
In only the third minute of this final group game against Nigeria, Messi scored on a rebound. And though the Nigerians struck back almost immediately, Messi would score again in added time at the end of the first half with a perfectly judged free kick from 25 yards that curled over the Nigerian wall and nestled into the upper right corner of the net without being touched by goalkeeper Vincent Enyeama.
在对阵尼日利亚的最后一场小组赛中，开场仅三分钟，梅西就打入一个反弹球。尽管尼日利亚人几乎立刻进行了反击，梅西在上半场补时阶段再入一球：他运用完美的判断力，在25码之外开出一记任意球，绕过尼日利亚人墙，从右上角破门，对方门将文森特·恩耶亚马(Vincent Enyeama)都没有触碰到这个球。
It was another masterwork in Brazil from the exquisite player who once reserved his best material for his club team F.C. Barcelona. But Messi is without doubt the leader and inspiration of this Argentine team, whose 3-2 victory secured first place in Group F, with the maximum 9 points and a 3-0 record.
这是技艺精湛的梅西在巴西世界杯上贡献的另一粒精彩入球，他的最佳表现曾经只留在他的俱乐部球队巴塞罗那。但梅西无疑是这支阿根廷队的领袖和灵感来源，本场比赛他们3比2获胜，以最高积分9分、三战全胜的战绩作为F组第一名晋级。
“There are good players in the team,” Nigeria Coach Stephen Keshi said of Argentina. “But Messi is from Jupiter.”
“他们有一些优秀的球员，”尼日利亚教练斯蒂芬·科西(Stephen Keshi)谈到阿根廷队时说。“但梅西来自木星。”
For the moment, however, Messi’s hopes and dreams all have to do with planet Earth.
就目前而言，梅西的希望和梦想都和行星地球有关。
“I believe there is nothing more beautiful than to be world champion,” he said. “I want to achieve it with my team and give happiness to my country. It would be incredible.”
“我觉得，没有什么事情比成为世界冠军更美妙了，”他说。“我要和队友努力实现这个梦想，给我们国家带来快乐。那会无比美妙。”
At this stage, Argentina will have to settle for a Round of 16 match against Switzerland in São Paulo on Tuesday. Nigeria, which finished second in the group despite the defeat, will face France, the winner of Group E, in Brasília on Monday.
就目前来说，阿根廷队不得不先打完16强赛，下周二他们将在圣保罗对阵瑞士队。尼日利亚尽管本场落败，但是作为F组第二名，将于下周一在巴西利亚对阵E组头名法国队。
“I’m not afraid of any team,” Keshi said. “I hope we can give some joy to the Africans, because they deserve it; they deserve it a lot.”
“我不怕任何球队，”科西说。“我希望我们能给非洲人带来一些快乐，因为这是他们应得的；他们有资格获得很多很多快乐。”
Anyone who missed the only World Cup staged in Argentina in 1978 now has a fine idea of what a World Cup there might be like.
阿根廷只在1978年举办过一届世界杯，如果你错过了那一届，那么现在你对“阿根廷举办的世界杯是什么样”会有一个很好的概念了。
“We were playing at home today both inside and outside the stadium,” said Sergio Romero, the Argentina goalkeeper. “I have nothing to say but ‘Thanks’ to them, because it shows how much they are behind us. It gives us energy and strength.”
“我们今天相当于是主场作战，在体育场内外都是如此，”阿根廷门将塞尔希奥·罗梅罗(Sergio Romero)说。“我对他们唯有说声‘谢谢’，因为他们展现了对我们的极大支持。这种支持给我们注入了力量和能量。”
Porto Alegre, the southernmost venue in Brazil’s World Cup, was within striking distance for the Argentine fans, some of whom transited through Uruguay. But the influx was a source of major concern to World Cup organizers. José Eduardo Cardozo, Brazil’s justice minister, reportedly traveled to Porto Alegre for the match, which was classified as “high risk.”
阿雷格里港是本届世界杯位置最靠南端​的比赛城市，对于阿根廷球迷来说，它不算太远，一些人途经乌拉圭抵达这里。但阿根廷人的大量涌入，却让世界杯组织者们忧心忡忡。据说巴西司法部长若泽·爱德华多·卡多佐(José Eduardo Cardozo)亲自前往阿雷格里港坐镇，因为这场比赛而被列为“高风险”事件。
Security measures were reinforced significantly. Checkpoints were placed farther from the stadium than in the previous World Cup matches in Porto Alegre, and the orange-helmeted military police were much more numerous and visible in the city center and near the FIFA Fan Fest, which was a gathering point for the tens of thousands of Argentines without tickets.
阿雷格里港的保安措施大幅增强，与这里的前几场世界杯比赛相比，检查点和球场的距离更远，在市中心，以及数以万计的无票阿根廷球迷所聚集的“国际球迷狂欢节”(FIFA Fan Fest)场地附近，戴着橙色头盔的武装警察人数增加了不少，随处可见。
The city also set up an additional large video screen for those that the Fan Fest could not accommodate.
该市还增设了一块大屏幕电视，方便“国际球迷狂欢节”场地容纳不下的人看直播。
There was at least one significant incident: An Argentine fan reportedly was shot in the leg on Tuesday night in a bar dispute. Reuters also reported on Wednesday that six other Argentine fans had been arrested for trying to steal tickets to the match.
这里至少出现了一起重大事件：据报道，本周二晚，由于在酒吧发生争执，一名阿根廷球迷被枪击中腿部。路透社本周三也报道称，另有六名阿根廷球迷，由于试图盗窃这场比赛的门票而被逮捕。
Local authorities told Brazilian news outlets that only about 18,000 Argentines arrived in Porto Alegre with tickets, but there appeared to be considerably more than 18,000 Argentine supporters in the stadium, which has a capacity of around 43,000.
地方当局告诉巴西新闻媒体，前来阿雷格里港的阿根廷人只有大约1.8万张门票，但在可以容纳约4.3万人的球场，阿根廷的支持者似乎大大超过了1.8万。
There were thunderous chants about the relative merits of Argentine soccer and Brazilian soccer and also singing about the 1990 World Cup, the last Cup in which Argentina reached the final.
观众们发出雷鸣般的声音，反复高喊阿根廷足球和巴西足球的突出优点，还在歌声中唱起了1990年的世界杯，那是阿根廷上一次在世界杯上打进决赛​​。
But the loudest roars of approval were reserved for Messi’s first-half brilliance and for the third Argentine goal. It was scored by defender Marcos Rojo in the 50th minute, just three minutes after Ahmed Musa had scored his second goal of the match for Nigeria.
但最响亮的呐喊声，保留给了梅西上半场的辉煌表现和阿根廷的第三次破门。阿根廷后卫马科斯·罗霍(Marcos Rojo)在第50分钟打进了这粒入球，仅仅三分钟之前，尼日利亚的艾哈迈德·穆萨(Ahmed Musa)二度破门成功。
“Our player scored two goals, too,” Enyeama said. “We should be enjoying that fact, too, not only talking about Messi.”
“我们的球员也打进两球，”恩耶亚马说。“我们也应该为此开心，而不只是谈论梅西。”
Argentina regained the lead with a corner kick that was headed on by Ezequiel Garay and came to Rojo, who was already in midleap and knocked the ball into the goal with a knee.
阿根廷再度取得领先——埃兹奎尔·加雷(Ezequiel Garay)顶到了一个角球，传给正在跃起的罗霍，后者用膝盖将球送入球门。
It was not nearly as artful as a Messi free kick but it turned out to be the game-winner, and Messi, whose four goals are tied for the tournament lead with Brazil’s Neymar, soon took a seat on the bench after being replaced in the 63d minute with an eye on preserving him for the second round.
这粒入球远没有梅西的任意球那么富于技巧，但却锁定了这场比赛的胜负；不久，梅西就在63分钟时被替换下场，坐在了板凳上，以便为第二轮比赛保存体力。目前他在本届世界杯的入球数达到四粒，和巴西的内马尔(Neymar)持平。
“We know Messi is our main player,” said Pablo Zabaleta, an Argentina defender. “He’s our captain. He means everything to this team.”
“我们知道梅西是我们的主力球员，”阿根廷后卫巴勃罗·萨巴莱塔(Pablo Zabaleta)说。“他是我们的队长，对这支球队来说，他意味着一切。”
The team still has its concerns, including its intermittently shaky defense and forward Sergio Agüero, who limped off with an apparent left thigh injury in the 38th minute.
这支球队也自有它的问题，比如它的防线会出现间歇性的不稳定状态，前锋塞尔吉奥·阿圭罗(Sergio Agüero)在第38分钟一瘸一拐地下场时，左大腿明显受伤。
But this was still an upbeat ending to round one, and when the match and the interviews were over, Messi and his teammates boarded their team bus and rolled off under an overcast sky into a city that remains very much part of Brazil, but for this one day, felt like it belonged to Argentina.
但这仍然是小组赛阶段的圆满结局；比赛和采访结束后，梅西和他的队友们登上球队大巴，在阴沉的天空下，驶进这个绝对巴西的城市，不过就这一天给人的感觉来说，它好像属于阿根廷。