SAY, did you see the news from Libya — the last country we bombed because its leader crossed a red line or was about to? Here’s a dispatch from Libya in the Sept. 3 British newspaper, The Independent:
看到有关利比亚的新闻了吗——上一个我们轰炸的国家，因为该国领导人当时越过红线了，或者说即将越线？英国《独立报》(the Independent) 9月3日刊登了一则由利比亚发回的报道，内容如下：
“Libya has plunged unnoticed into its worst political and economic crisis since the defeat of Qaddafi two years ago. Government authority is disintegrating in all parts of the country putting in doubt claims by American, British and French politicians that NATO’s military action in Libya in 2011 was an outstanding example of a successful foreign military intervention, which should be repeated in Syria. ... Output of Libya’s prized high-quality crude oil has plunged from 1.4 million barrels a day earlier this year to just 160,000 barrels a day now.”
“自从卡扎菲(Qaddafi)两年前被推翻后，在不知不觉中，利比亚已陷入了该国最糟糕的政治和经济危机。政府权威在全国各地土崩瓦解。这让人们不禁质疑美、英、法政客的说法。他们宣称北约2011年在利比亚的行动是成功外国军事干预的突出例证，在叙利亚应照此办理。……利比亚宝贵的高质原油产量已从今年早期的每天140万桶跌至如今的每天16万桶。”
I keep reading about how Iraq was the bad war and Libya was the good war and Afghanistan was the necessary war and Bosnia was the moral war and Syria is now another necessary war. Guess what! They are all the same war.
我总是读到，伊拉克是糟糕之战，而利比亚是正义之战、阿富汗是必要之战、波斯尼亚是道义之战。现如今，叙利亚又是一场必要之战。信不信由你，其实它们都是一个类型的战争。
They are all the story of what happens when multisectarian societies, most of them Muslim or Arab, are held together for decades by dictators ruling vertically, from the top down, with iron fists and then have their dictators toppled, either by internal or external forces. And they are all the story of how the people in these countries respond to the fact that with the dictator gone they can only be governed horizontally — by the constituent communities themselves writing their own social contracts for how to live together as equal citizens, without an iron fist from above. And, as I’ve said before, they are all the story of how difficult it is to go from Saddam to Jefferson — from vertical rule to horizontal rule — without falling into Hobbes or Khomeini.
这些战争故事都发生在多派别社会，多为穆斯林或阿拉伯社会。几十年来，独裁者在社会中依靠铁腕实行自上而下的垂直统治，维持着社会的稳定。后来，或因内力，或为外因，独裁者被推翻。然后故事就发展为，独裁者消失后，这些国家的人民如何应对仅有的水平统治体系——也就是在没有铁腕的压制后，由各个社群撰写自己的社会契约，来作为平等的公民共处一地。正如我之前讲到的，这些故事都描述了从萨达姆(Saddam)式专制走向杰斐逊(Jefferson)式民主的艰难——从垂直统治到水平统治——而不至于陷入霍布斯(Thomas Hobbes)式的混乱或霍梅尼式的铁腕统治。
In Bosnia, after much ethnic cleansing between warring communities, NATO came in and stabilized and codified what is in effect a partition. We acted on the ground as “the army of the center.” In Iraq, we toppled the dictator and then, after making every mistake in the book, we got the parties to write a new social contract. To make that possible, we policed the lines between sects and eliminated a lot of the worst jihadists in the Shiite and Sunni ranks. We acted on the ground as the “army of the center.” But then we left before anything could take root. Ditto Afghanistan.
在波斯尼亚，各参战派别均进行大规模种族清洗活动之后，北约的进驻稳定了局势，并确立了一种实际上的割据状态。我们在地面充当“中心力量”。在伊拉克，我们推翻独裁者，并犯过所有可能犯的错误后，让各派签署了新的社会契约。为确保契约得到执行，我们监督各派之间的分界，并清除了大批什叶派(the Shiite)和逊尼派(the Sunni)的极端顽固圣战者。我们在地面充当了“中心力量”。却在新的秩序开始稳固生根之前一走了之。在阿富汗也是这样。
The Obama team wanted to be smarter in Libya: No boots on the ground. So we decapitated that dictator from the air. But then our ambassador got murdered, because, without boots on the ground to referee, and act as the army of the center, Hobbes took hold before Jefferson.
奥巴马团队想在利比亚问题上表现得更聪明：地面不派军事人员。我们从空中对独裁者进行了斩首。但之后我们的大使被谋杀，因为地面没有军事人员充当裁判和“中心力量”，霍布斯赶在杰斐逊之前掌控了局势。
If we were to decapitate the Syrian regime from the air, the same thing would likely happen there. For any chance of a multisectarian democratic outcome in Syria, you need to win two wars on the ground: one against the ruling Assad-Alawite-Iranian-Hezbollah-Shiite alliance; and, once that one is over, you’d have to defeat the Sunni Islamists and pro-Al Qaeda jihadists. Without an army of the center (which no one will provide) to back up the few decent Free Syrian Army units, both will be uphill fights.
如果我们还想通过空袭废除叙利亚的政权，同样的情况可能会再次上演。要想在叙利亚创造机会以产生多派别的民主，你需要在地面赢得两场战斗：一场是击败处于统治地位的阿萨德—阿拉维派(Alawite)—真主党(Hezbollah)—什叶派联盟；这场战争结束后，你必须还要战胜逊尼派伊斯兰主义分子和亲基地组织(Al Qaeda)的圣战者。如果没有“中心力量”来支持自由叙利亚军(Free Syrian Army)中为数不多的没问题的部队，这两场战斗都会无比艰难。
The center exists in these countries, but it is weak and unorganized. It’s because these are pluralistic societies — mixtures of tribes and religious sects, namely Shiites, Sunnis, Christians, Kurds, Druze and Turkmen — but they lack any sense of citizenship or deep ethic of pluralism. That is, tolerance, cooperation and compromise. They could hold together as long as there was a dictator to “protect” (and divide) everyone from everyone else. But when the dictator goes, and you are a pluralistic society but lack pluralism, you can’t build anything because there is never enough trust for one community to cede power to another — not without an army of the center to protect everyone from everyone.
这些国家存在中间派，但他们脆弱而散漫。这是因为，上述国家虽为多元社会——混杂着不同的部族和宗教派别，如什叶派、逊尼派、基督教、库尔德人、德鲁士人和土库曼人——但缺乏公民意识，或深层次的多元化民族意识，即宽容、合作和妥协。只要有独裁者对各派进行“保护”（同时分而治之），他们就能聚拢一处。但独裁者消失后，就变成了缺乏多元主义的多元社会。没有任何一派能够信任别的派别，而对权力拱手相让——若无“中心力量”对各派的保护，这也绝不可能。
In short, the problem now across the Arab East is not just poison gas, but poisoned hearts. Each tribe or sect believes it is in a rule-or-die struggle against the next, and when everyone believes this, it becomes self-fulfilling.
简单地说，困扰阿拉伯世界东部的问题不仅是毒气，还有受毒害的心灵。每个部落或派别都认为自己处于成王败寇的关头，其他人都是对手。而当每个人都这么看时，这一看法就会成真。
That means Syria and Iraq will both likely devolve into self-governing, largely homogeneous, ethnic and religious units, like Kurdistan. And, if we are lucky, these units will find a modus vivendi, as happened in Lebanon after 14 years of civil war. And then maybe, over time, these smaller units will voluntarily come together into larger, more functional states.
这也就意味着叙利亚和伊拉克都很有可能分裂为基本上属于同一宗族和教派的自治单元，就像库尔德斯坦(Kurdistan)。如果我们运气好的话，它们之间能寻求到一些权宜之计，如黎巴嫩在经历了14年内战后的情形。然后，也许随着时间推移，这些小的单元能自行结合成更大，运转更好的国家。
I still believe our response to Assad’s poison gas attack should be “arm and shame,” as I wrote on Wednesday. But, please do spare me the lecture that America’s credibility is at stake here. Really? Sunnis and Shiites have been fighting since the 7th century over who is the rightful heir to the Prophet Muhammad’s spiritual and political leadership, and our credibility is on the line? Really? Their civilization has missed every big modern global trend — the religious Reformation, democratization, feminism and entrepreneurial and innovative capitalism — and our credibility is on the line? I don’t think so.
我依然认为对于阿萨德的毒气战，我们应以“武力及声讨”相回击，如我在周三写到的。但请不要对我大讲特讲这关系到美国的信誉。真是这样吗？逊尼派和什叶派自7世纪起就为谁是先知穆罕默德(the Prophet Muhammad)的宗教及政治领导权的合理继承人而争斗不已。此事攸关我们的信誉？当真如此？在全球范围内，他们的文明每每错过了大型的现代潮流——宗教改革、民主化、女权主义、企业家和创新资本主义——此事攸关我们的信誉？我不这么认为。
We’ve struggled for a long time, and still are, learning to tolerate “the other.” That struggle has to happen in the Arab/Muslim world, otherwise nothing we do matters. What is the difference between the Arab awakening in 2011 and South Africa’s transition to democracy in the 1990s? America? No. The quality of local leadership and the degree of tolerance.
我们挣扎已久，而且还在挣扎着去学习宽容“对方”。阿拉伯/穆斯林世界也必须经历这样的挣扎，否则我们所做的一切都是徒劳。阿拉伯世界2011年的觉醒和南非90年代向民主的过渡有何差别？在于美国吗？不，差别在于本土领导力量的水平和宽容度。