IF you’re confused about all the turmoil in the Arab world and asking how the United States should respond, I find it useful to consider three questions:
如果你对阿拉伯世界的所有乱局感到迷惑，想问美国该如何应对，我认为，考虑以下三个问题会有帮助：
1) Why is it that the Arab awakening country where the U.S. has had the least involvement, Tunisia, is where the most progress is being made toward building a consensual democracy? 2) Why are the three most important numbers to keep in mind when thinking about the Arab world today 1, 5,000 and 500,000? 3) Why does Egypt’s strongman, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, have so many medals on his chest when he’s too young to have fought in any of Egypt’s big wars, and why might that be a worrying sign?
1) 为什么在觉醒的阿拉伯国家中，美国插手最少的国家突尼斯在建立各方认同的民主制度上取得了最大的进步？2) 在思考今天的阿拉伯世界时，为什么人们脑海里最重要的三个数字是1、5000和50万？3) 埃及强人阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西将军(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)的年纪没有大到参加过埃及的任何一场大战，然而为何他的胸前挂着那么多勋章？为什么这可能是一个危险的迹象？
Let’s start with Tunisia, where the country’s National Constituent Assembly has forged a new Constitution that, as The Times reported, “is a carefully worded blend of ideas that has won the support of both Ennahda, the Islamist party ... and the secular opposition.” It is surely one of the most liberal and inclusive constitutions in the Arab world. It took three years of political struggles for the Tunisians to get there, and the whole thing could still blow up at any time, but it is an achievement that Tunisians basically did on their own. What’s the secret?
让我们从突尼斯开始谈起吧，根据《纽约时报》的报道，突尼斯制宪议会(National Constituent Assembly)已经制定了一部新宪法，它“是多种意见的混合体，措辞谨慎，既赢得了伊斯兰派政党复兴运动党(Ennahda)的支持......也赢得了世俗反对派的支持。”它肯定是阿拉伯世界最自由、最包容的宪法之一。突尼斯人进行了了三年的政治斗争，才走到这一步，所有这一切依然可能随时化为乌有。然而，这是突尼斯人基本上自食其力取得的成就。其中的秘诀是什么？
Answer: The main religious and secular forces in Tunisia, after coming close to civil war, finally agreed to the sine qua non for the success of any Arab democracy movement — “No victor, no vanquished.” Whether you’re talking Shiites, Sunnis, Alawites, Kurds, tribes, Islamists or secular generals, in these pluralistic Arab states, unless all the key parties accept the principle that power will be shared and rotated, there is no chance any of these awakenings will make a stable transition from autocracy to more consensual politics.
答案在这里：在内战迫近的时刻，突尼斯主要的宗教和世俗势力最终就阿拉伯民主运动胜利的先决条件达成了一致，这个条件就是“没有成王败寇”。无论你是在谈论什叶派(Shiite)，逊尼派(Sunni)、阿拉维派(Alawite)、库尔德人(Kurd)、部族势力、伊斯兰主义者，还是世俗派将领，在这些多元化的阿拉伯国家里，除非所有的核心参与者都接受分享权力和轮流执政的原则，否则，这些正在觉醒的国家就不会有机会实现从独裁国家到更加崇尚共识的政体的平稳过渡。
But Tunisians had another advantage, says Craig Charney, a veteran pollster in South Africa and the Middle East. Tunisia “already had strong civil society institutions” — like the General Labor Union, the National Business Federation, the Tunisian Bar Association and the Tunisian Human Rights League. These institutions, explained Charney, “were able to play a nonpartisan moderating role between the different political factions.” And, unlike Egypt, Tunisia also did not have a politicized military with deep roots in the economy that had incentives to meddle in the political arena. Syria, Libya and Iraq had no real civil society institutions at all.
不过，资深的南非及中东民意调查人克雷格·查尼(Craig Charney)说，突尼斯还有另一个优势。这个国家“已经拥有强大的民间社团组织”——比如突尼斯总工会(General Labor Union)、全国商业联合会(National Business Federation)、突尼斯律师协会(Tunisian Bar Association)和突尼斯人权联盟(Tunisian Human Rights League)。查尼解释说，这些组织“能在不同的政治党派之间，扮演无党派的节制角色”。而且，和埃及不同的是，突尼斯的军队并不政治化，在国家经济中也没有深厚根基，所以没有干涉政事的动机。叙利亚、利比亚和伊拉克则根本没有真正的民间社团。
And that leads to those numbers. When people in a country are ready to live together, you just need one Nelson Mandela — a unifying leader — to galvanize the political system to work productively. When people are not ready to live together but are ready to live apart — as in Bosnia or Lebanon after years of civil war — you just need 5,000 peacekeepers to police the de facto or de jure lines of partition. But when people are not ready to live together or apart — because of a lack of trust, lack of exhaustion or one or all parties still think they can have it all — then you probably need 500,000 peacekeepers to come in, remove the dictator, eliminate the most extreme elements on all sides, and protect the center for a long time while it forges a new citizenship and party system able to share power. Even then, failure is a real option.
这就导致了前述数字的产生。当一个国家的民众准备好要和平共处时，你只需要一个纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)——一个团结所有人的领导人——就能激发政治体制有效地运作起来。当民众没有准备好和平共处，而是打算分开生活时，你只需要5000名维和人员来监管事实上的、或者法律上的分隔线，历经多年内战的波斯尼亚或黎巴嫩，就是如此。然而，如果因为缺乏信任、精力过于旺盛，或者因为一个党派或所有党派依然想独揽大权，而导致民众没有做好和平共处、或者分开生活的准备，那么你也许需要50万名维和人员进驻那里，以驱逐独裁者、铲除各方势力里最极端的群体，在中间势力形成新的公民社会和能够分享权力的政党制度期间，对它提供长期的保护。即使到那时，失败的可能依然真实存在。
In short, what ails the Arab world is something we alone can’t fix: an inability to manage pluralism in a democratic way. We can stop the worst of it as long as we are there (see: Iraq). But only they can make the best of it — and make it self-sustaining. President Bashar al-Assad of Syria is a monster. But he can only be removed in a way that won’t bring more chaos if the Syrian opposition can demonstrate on the ground that it not only believes in pluralism, but has the will and ability to enforce it. Otherwise, the Syrian minorities gathered around Assad will not abandon him. Everyone urging President Obama to intervene in Syria needs to keep all this in mind.
简而言之，让阿拉伯世界苦恼不已的问题，是我们无法独力解决的，那就是它无力以民主的方式应对多元主义。只要我们待在现场，我们就能制止最糟糕的局面（看看伊拉克）。不过，只有本国人才能取得最好的结果，并让这种结果可以持续下去。叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)是一个恶魔。不过，想要赶走他却不引发更多混乱，唯一的方式就是叙利亚反对派能在当地展现他们不仅信仰多元主义，而且有意愿、有能力把它落到实处。否则，围绕在阿萨德周围的叙利亚少数派就不会抛弃他。敦促奥巴马总统出手干预叙利亚局势的所有人，都需要把这一点熟记于心。
As for Egypt, I had no sympathy for the Muslim Brotherhood leaders. I wish they had been voted out office, but I understood why so many Egyptians wanted the army to get rid of them. Yet, when the army also decided to arrest decent, nonviolent, civil society youth leaders — like Ahmed Maher — for simply protesting, and eliminated the Muslim Brotherhood from Egyptian political life, not even allowing the Brotherhood to play by new restrictive rules, it felt like a return to the old model of relying on a military strongman and producing stability through suppression, not inclusion.
至于埃及，我并不喜欢穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的领导人。我希望他们是被票选结果逐出办公室的，不过我能理解，为什么有这么多的埃及人希望军方把他们赶下台。然而，军方还决定逮捕规规矩矩的非暴力民间团体的青年领导人——如艾哈迈德·马厄(Ahmed Maher)，只因为他进行了抗议，而且要把穆兄会驱逐出埃及政坛，甚至不允许穆兄会按照限制性的新规定参加选举。这让人感觉像是回到了依赖一名军方强人，通过镇压、而不是包容的方式来维稳的老套路上。
I hope I’m wrong, but I worry. Wikipedia has a list of General Sisi’s medals. They include things like the Silver Jubilee of October [1973] War Medal and the Golden Jubilee of the 23rd of July [1953] Revolution. They fall into the category of looking for dignity in all the wrong places — celebrating Egypt’s past, not winning its future. When General Sisi announces that the medals he will henceforth seek are for defeating Egypt’s real enemies — like wiping out female illiteracy — or for building more science and technology high schools or for building a truly inclusive political system, I’ll become a fan. And the day he starts pinning medals on other Egyptians for their leadership in those same causes, Egypt will be a strong nation that won’t need a strongman. 
我希望自己错了，可是我真的担心。维基百科(Wikipedia)有一张塞西将军的勋章列表。其中包括了纪念1973年的十月战争的银禧勋章(Silver Jubilee)、纪念1953年7月23日革命的金禧勋章(Golden Jubilee)。它们都属于同一类别，都是在庆祝埃及的过去、而不是赢取它的未来，这是在完全错误的地点寻找尊严。当塞西将军宣布，从此之后，他的勋章将来自击败埃及真正敌人——比如扫除女性文盲——或者建立更多的科技高校、又或者建立一套真正具备包容性的政治制度，我会成为他的粉丝。有朝一日，当他开始把勋章别在因为对类似的事业领导有方而获奖的其他埃及人身上时，埃及会成为一个不需要强人的强国。