BUENOS AIRES — Argentine voters handed a victory to Mauricio Macri in the country’s presidential election on Sunday, delivering a mandate to an opposition political figure seeking to roll back some of the protectionist economic measures of the departing president, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner.
布宜诺斯艾利斯──周日，阿根廷的选民在总统大选中，将胜利送给了毛里西奥‧马克里(Mauricio Macri)。即将离任的总统克里斯蒂娜‧费尔南德斯‧德基什内尔(Cristina Fernández de Kirchner)提出过一些保护主义的经济政策，赢得治国大权的马克里将试图取消这样的举措。
With votes from 99 percent of polling places counted, Mr. Macri, the mayor of Buenos Aires and a former president of Boca Juniors, one of Argentina’s most popular soccer teams, was leading with 51.4 percent of the vote, according to election officials, against 48.5 percent for Daniel Scioli, a former speedboat racer and vice president under former President Néstor Kirchner, who died in 2010. Mr. Scioli conceded defeat on national television on Sunday night.
选举官员透露，当99%的投票站都计票完毕后，马克里以51.4%领先，超过了丹尼尔‧肖利(Daniel Scioli)的48.5%。马克里曾任布宜诺斯艾利斯的市长，也曾任博卡青年队(Boca Juniors)主席，该队是阿根廷最受欢迎的足球队之一。丹尼尔‧肖利曾为快艇选手，也担任过前总统内斯托尔‧基什内尔(Néstor Kirchne)的副手，前总统基什内尔于2010年过世。周日晚间，肖利在全国性电视台上承认败选。
Running a largely nonconfrontational campaign in a society that has grown increasingly polarized under Mrs. Kirchner, who succeeded her husband in 2007, Mr. Macri, 56, stunned the political establishment in October by forcing the race into a runoff and maintaining his surge in recent weeks. He ran to the right of his rivals, blending plans to overhaul the economy and promote the tolerance of various points of view on social issues.
德基什内尔于2007年接替丈夫领导阿根廷，在她任内，社会渐趋两极分化。56岁的马克里在选战中对抗性不强，他在10月使体制内政治人士大吃一惊，因为他让这场选举进入了仅剩两名候选人的第二轮投票，而且他在近几周以来一直人气高涨。他的立场比对手更右派，将各种计划糅合在一起，意图改革经济，并且在社会议题上包容各种不同观点。
Mr. Macri’s relatively narrow victory revealed deep fissures in Argentina after 12 years of governance by Mrs. Kirchner and her husband, with many voters expressing concern over the direction of the economy and frustration with Mrs. Kirchner’s blistering attacks on critics in the news media, business establishments and rival political parties.
马克里的险胜也揭露了阿根廷过去12年来在德基什内尔和她的丈夫治理之下所产生的深深裂缝。许多选民表达了对经济走向的关切，也对德基什内尔在媒体上抨击对手政党和商业界的做法感到失望。
“Cristina divided the country and destroyed it morally,” said Dimitri Javakhishvili, 67, an immigrant from Georgia who works as a doorman at a building here in the neighborhood of Recoleta. Mr. Javakhishvili acknowledged that Mr. Macri could face challenges in trying to govern when Mrs. Kirchner’s political movement moves into the opposition.
“克里斯蒂娜让这个国家产生分裂，又从道德上摧毁了它，”67岁的格鲁吉亚移民迪米特里‧贾瓦基什维利(Dimitri Javakhishvili)现在是雷科莱塔地区的门房。在德基什内尔的政治势力转为反对派时，他认为马克里治理国家的尝试可能会面对挑战。
Still, Mr. Javakhishvili said, “At least he’s something new; he’s something fresh.”
不过，贾瓦基什维利也说：“至少他是新面孔，他让人耳目一新。”