BUENOS AIRES, Argentina — Alberto Nisman, the prosecutor whose mysterious death has gripped Argentina, had drafted a warrant for the arrest of President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, accusing her of trying to shield Iranian officials from responsibility in the 1994 bombing of a Jewish center here, the lead investigator into his death said Tuesday.
阿根廷布宜诺斯艾利斯——检察官阿尔韦托·尼斯曼(Alberto Nisman)的神秘死亡在阿根廷引发了全国性的关注。该案的首席调查人员周二称，尼斯曼曾起草过一份针对总统克里斯蒂娜·费尔南德斯·德基什内尔(Cristina Fernández de Kirchner)的逮捕令，指责她试图免除伊朗官员在1994年阿根廷一处犹太人中心爆炸事件中的责任。
The 26-page document, found in the garbage at Nisman's apartment, also requested the arrest of Héctor Timerman, Argentina's foreign minister. Both Kirchner and Timerman have repeatedly denied Nisman's accusation that they tried to reach a secret deal with Iran to lift international arrest warrants for Iranian officials wanted in connection with the bombing.
这份26页长的文件是在尼斯曼公寓的垃圾中发现的，上面还要求逮捕阿根廷外交部长埃克托尔·蒂梅尔曼(Héctor Timerman)。德基什内尔和蒂梅尔曼均多次否认尼斯曼的指控，即他们试图与伊朗达成一项秘密协议，解除对与这起爆炸案有关的伊朗官员的国际通缉令。
The new revelation that Nisman had drafted arrest warrants for the president and the foreign minister further illustrates the heightened tensions between him and the government before he was found dead Jan. 18 at his apartment with a gunshot wound to his head. He had been scheduled the next day to provide details before Congress about his accusations against Kirchner.
尼斯曼曾起草过针对总统和外长的逮捕令，这一最新发现进一步突显出，他生前与政府的冲突已然加剧。尼斯曼于1月18日被发现在自家的公寓内身亡，头部带有一处枪伤。他原定于第二天向国会提供指控德基什内尔的详细信息。
“It would have provoked a crisis without precedents in Argentina,” Sergio Berensztein, a political analyst, said about the impact of the warrants if they had been issued.
“这可能会在阿根廷引发一场史无前例的危机，”在谈到逮捕令如若得以签发将产生何种影响时，政治分析人士塞尔希奥·贝伦施泰因(Sergio Berensztein)说。
He acknowledged that previous legal cases had shaken Argentina's political establishment, but he emphasized that this case involved a request to arrest a sitting president.
他承认，之前确有一些法律案件曾经撼动过阿根廷的政治权贵，但他强调，此案牵涉到寻求逮捕一位在任总统。
“It would have been a scandal on a level previously unseen,” Berensztein said.
“这将是一桩前所未有的丑闻，”贝伦施泰因说。
Kirchner, who is on a visit to China, issued a stream of updates on Twitter about strengthening ties between Buenos Aires and Beijing but did not comment immediately on the confirmation that Nisman had considered seeking her arrest. She and the foreign minister have previously pointed to statements by Interpol's former director that the Argentine government did not lobby it to lift the Iranian arrest warrants.
德基什内尔正在中国访问。她在Twitter上发表了一连串有关加强阿中纽带的帖子，但对于有人证实尼斯曼生前曾考虑寻求逮捕她一事，她并未立即发表评论。之前，国际刑警组织(Interpol)原总干事发表了一份声明，称阿根廷政府并没有游说过该组织，请其撤销针对伊朗官员的逮捕令。德基什内尔和外交外长一直在以此证明自己的清白。
Viviana Fein, the prosecutor investigating Nisman's death, confirmed Tuesday morning that Nisman had prepared the draft of the warrant requesting the president's arrest. Confusion about the document had emerged when Fein had initially denied its existence, after the newspaper Clarín published an article Sunday about the draft.
调查尼斯曼之死的检察官维维安娜·费恩(Viviana Fein)周二上午证实，尼斯曼的确起草了逮捕令，要求拘捕总统。这份文件可谓笼罩在重重迷雾之中，因为当《号角报》(Clarín)周日刊登了一篇相关文章后，费恩起初否认了它的存在。
Kirchner's Cabinet chief, Jorge Capitanich, tore up the article before reporters Monday. But then Fein corrected her earlier statement and confirmed the existence of the draft, which Clarín said was prepared in June, more than six months before Nisman went public with his accusations against the president.
周一，德基什内尔的内阁首席部长豪尔赫·卡皮塔尼奇(Jorge Capitanich)当着记者的面撕碎了那篇文章。但后来，费恩纠正了早前的表述，证实了文件的存在。据《号角报》报道，这份逮捕令草稿是去年6月准备的。六个多月后，尼斯曼才公开指控总统。
“The words I should have used are, `It's evident that there was a draft,'  ” Fein said in comments broadcast on Argentine radio.
“我本来应该说的是，‘明显存在一份草稿，’”费恩在阿根廷的广播电台上如此评论。
The draft of the arrest warrants was not included in a 289-page criminal complaint against Kirchner, the foreign minister and prominent supporters of the president that Nisman filed. Nisman accused them of derailing his decade-long investigation into the 1994 bombing of the Argentina Israelite Mutual Association, commonly called AMIA, which left 85 people dead.
尼斯曼起草的逮捕令并未包含在他提交的一份长达289页的刑事起诉书中。该起诉书针对的是德基什内尔、外长以及支持总统的一些重要人物。尼斯曼指控他们妨碍自己的调查工作。1994年，阿根廷犹太人互助协会（Argentina Israelite Mutual Association，简称AMIA）发生爆炸，导致85人死亡。尼斯曼对此事进行了长达十年的调查。
Two judges have refused to take the case made by Nisman, raising the possibility that his complaint could languish in Argentina's legal system if another judge is not found to continue it. A federal chamber is expected to decide who should take the case.
已有两名法官拒绝受理尼斯曼提起的这桩案件。如果找不到其他法官受理此案，尼斯曼的这场诉讼可能会在阿根廷的司法体系内不了了之。按照计划，联邦议院将决定由谁来受理此案。
Kirchner and senior officials have criticized Nisman's complaint, disputing his findings and contending that agents from Argentina's premier intelligence services were involved in preparing it. In the uproar around the prosecutor's death, Kirchner announced a plan last week to overhaul the intelligence agency, following a purge of its leadership in December.
德基什内尔和多名高官谴责尼斯曼的起诉，质疑他的调查结果，并称阿根廷最高情报机构的探员参与了诉讼的筹划工作。在这名检察官的死亡引起一片哗然之际，德基什内尔上周宣布了一项改革该情报机构的计划。去年12月，该机构的领导层已遭到一轮清洗。
Meanwhile, the investigation into Nisman's death is proceeding as theories swirl in Argentina about whether it was a suicide or a killing. Kirchner has suggested that Nisman's death is part of a plot to tarnish her government.
与此同时，随着对尼斯曼之死进行的调查正在进行，关于这究竟是自杀还是谋杀的各种理论在阿根廷传得沸沸扬扬。德基什内尔表示，尼斯曼的死属于一个阴谋，为的是损害她领导的政府的名声。