Arthur Gelb, who by sheer force of personality was a dominant figure at The New York Times for decades, lifting its metropolitan and arts coverage to new heights and helping to shape the paper in its modern era, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90.
阿瑟·盖尔布(Arthur Gelb)具有强大的人格力量，他在《纽约时报》曾连续数十年都是一个主导性人物。他将《纽约时报》的都市报道和艺术报道提升到了新的高度，并帮助时报在现代塑造了自身的形象。阿瑟·盖尔布周二在曼哈顿家中去世，享年90岁。
His son Peter Gelb, the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera in New York, said the cause was complications of a stroke.
其子，纽约大都会歌剧院(Metropolitan Opera)总经理彼得·盖尔布(Peter Gelb)透露，死因系中风并发症。
Hired as a copy boy in 1944, Mr. Gelb rose to become a singular Times figure in the second half of the 20th century, leaving a large stamp as critic, chief cultural correspondent, metropolitan editor, deputy managing editor and managing editor, the post he held when he retired at the end of 1989.
盖尔布在1944年被录用为送稿生(copy boy)，之后一路晋升，并在20世纪后半叶成为了《纽约时报》独一无二的人物。他作为评论人、首席文化记者、都市版主编、执行副主编及执行主编，留下了深深的印记。1989年，他在执行主编任上退休。
No matter the role, Mr. Gelb, a gangly 6-foot-2, was relentless, fidgety and in-your-face — whether in passionate response to a potential scoop or in fevered reaction to the whim of a fellow boss, typically the equally relentless A. M. Rosenthal, who had been two years his senior at City College and perpetually a step ahead of him in the Times hierarchy, finally reaching the newsroom’s top post, executive editor.
瘦高的盖尔布——身高6英尺2英寸（约1米88）——无论担任哪个角色都不知疲倦、躁动不安、咄咄逼人，热情洋溢地回应可能挖到的猛料时如此，对其他管理层成员的突发奇想做出激烈反应时也是如此。那些突发奇想的念头常常来自同样不知疲倦的A·M·罗森索(A. M. Rosenthal)。罗森索在纽约城市学院(City College)就读时比盖尔布高两级，之后在时报的管理层级上也总是领先一步。罗森索最终担任了主编，这是新闻编辑部的最高职务。
Mr. Gelb, writing for the culture pages, discovered stars in an expanding Off Broadway universe. His reviews and news coverage helped propel the fledgling careers of, among others, Woody Allen, Barbra Streisand, Dick Gregory, Lenny Bruce, Jason Robards, Joseph Papp and Colleen Dewhurst.
盖尔布在为文化版撰稿时，在日益壮大的外百老汇发现了许多新星。他的评论和新闻报道对不少崭露头角的新星起到了推动作用，其中包括伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)、芭芭拉·史翠珊(Barbra Streisand)、迪克·格雷戈里(Dick Gregory)、兰尼·布鲁斯(Lenny Bruce)、杰森·罗巴兹(Jason Robards)、约瑟夫·帕普(Joseph Papp)和科琳·杜赫斯特(Colleen Dewhurst)。
As a top editor he played a vital role, beginning in the 1970s, in conceiving and executing daily stand-alone sections — SportsMonday, Science Times, Dining, Home, Weekend — as well as special magazines on Sundays. All of them expanded and deepened news coverage while becoming durable vehicles for advertising in challenging economic times. Other newspapers emulated them widely.
从上世纪70年代开始，他作为编辑部领导层之一，在构思和执行一系列单日独立版面时，扮演了关键的角色，如周一体育版(SportsMonday)、科技版(Science Times)、美食版(Dining)、居家版(Home)、周末版(Weekend)，以及在周日发行的专题杂志。所有这些尝试，在扩大和加深新闻报道的同时，都成为了广告的持久载体，即使在经济形势不佳时也是如此。其他报纸竞相效仿这种做法。
Under Mr. Gelb’s watch as metropolitan editor, The Times’s investigation of systemic police corruption, spurred by revelations by Officer Frank Serpico, redeemed the paper’s sometimes gushing embrace of Mayor John V. Lindsay’s administration and led to the creation of the Knapp Commission, which prompted reforms.
在盖尔布担任都市版主编任内，时报在弗兰克·塞皮科(Frank Serpico)警官披露的情况激发下，对警队的系统性腐败进行了调查。这平衡了时报对时任市长约翰·V·林赛(John V. Lindsay)的政府不时表现出的热情拥戴，也催生了推行改革的纳普委员会(Knapp Commission)。
Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the publisher of The Times, said in a statement on Tuesday that Mr. Gelb “brought great energy and insight to our journalism.”
时报出版人小阿瑟·苏兹伯格(Arthur Sulzberger Jr.)周二在一份声明中表示，盖尔布“为我们的新闻报道带来了巨大的活力和洞见”。
Mr. Gelb also initiated or oversaw prizewinning investigations that exposed a virulent American Nazi’s hidden Jewish heritage, a modest suburban girl’s secret life as a drug addict on the Lower East Side and the illicit provenance of an ancient Greek vase that had been smuggled out of Italy and prominently displayed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art (whose board included the paper’s publisher at the time, Arthur O. Sulzberger).
盖尔布还发起或主管了许多获奖的调查报道，如揭露一名歹毒的美国纳粹分子背后有鲜为人知的犹太渊源；一名低调的郊区女孩在下东区过着吸毒成瘾的隐秘生活；一尊在大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)突出展示的古希腊花瓶出处并不光彩，是从意大利走私而来。（该博物馆的理事会包括当时的时报出版人阿瑟·O·苏兹伯格[Arthur O. Sulzberger]。）
Mr. Gelb and Mr. Rosenthal jointly edited several anthologies of Times articles, columns and obituaries. They also became embroiled in a well-publicized controversy over the author Jerzy Kosinski, their friend, whom The Village Voice accused of plagiarism and other literary crimes in 1982.
盖尔布和罗森索共同编辑了数册由时报文章、专栏和讣告组成的文集。他们也卷入了一场涉及他们的朋友，作家耶日·科辛斯基(Jerzy Kosinski)的争议。《村声》(The Village Voice)在1982年指称科辛斯基犯有抄袭等文学罪行。
Attacked for shielding him, they commissioned a 6,000-word riposte in the Arts & Leisure section arguing that Mr. Kosinski had been the victim of a smear campaign engineered by the Communist government of his native Poland. Years later, reviewing a Kosinski biography, the critic Edward Neuert wrote on Salon: “It is clear now that Kosinski’s most energetic construction was his life.”
在被人指责袒护科辛斯基之后，盖尔布和罗森索授意在艺术休闲版发表了长达6000单词的文章进行反驳，称科辛斯基的祖国波兰的共产党政府策划了一场抹黑行动，他是其中的受害者。多年以后，批评家爱德华·诺伊尔特(Edward Neuert)在Salon网站上写道：“现在我们清楚了，科辛斯基最有力的构思是自己的生活。”
In his book “Behind the Times: Inside the New New York Times,” Edwin Diamond, a former Times reporter, wrote in 1993 that Mr. Rosenthal and Mr. Gelb “were much too smart to influence a critic to write a puff review,” but that “they did not hesitate to push for favorable mention of friends in the news pages.”
时报前记者埃德温·戴蒙德(Edwin Diamond)在1993年的著作《时报之后：新纽约时报幕后》(Behind the Times: Inside the New New York Times)中写道，罗森索和盖尔布“很聪明，不至于会向评论人士施压，撰写吹捧的评论”，但是“他们会毫不犹豫地推动，在新闻版面上刊登涉及朋友的正面报道”。
Known for nurturing young talent, Mr. Gelb developed a long roster of protégés, including Maureen Dowd, Paul Goldberger, Ada Louise Huxtable, Michiko Kakutani, Frank Rich and John Rockwell, the chief rock music critic.
盖尔布以栽培新秀而著称，他提携了很多后辈，包括莫琳·多德(Maureen Dowd)、保罗·戈德伯格(Paul Goldberger)、艾达·露易丝·赫克斯泰勃尔(Ada Louise Huxtable)、角谷美智子(Michiko Kakutani)、弗兰克·里奇(Frank Rich)，以及首席摇滚乐评人约翰·罗克韦尔(John Rockwell)。
“He has that surprisingly rare quality in an editor,” the author Renata Adler, a former Times movie critic, said. “He makes you want to write.”
“他具有一般的编辑身上惊人地罕见的特质，”曾是时报影评人的作家雷纳塔·阿德勒(Renata Adler)说。“他能让你想写东西。”
He also cultivated a second career, with his wife, Barbara, as an authority on the playwright Eugene O’Neill. They published two definitive volumes testifying to O’Neill’s influence as a major American cultural figure.
他还作为研究剧作家尤金·奥尼尔(Eugene O’Neill)的专家，与妻子芭芭拉共同经营了第二项事业。他们出版了两本权威著作，阐明了奥尼尔作为美国文化的重要人物所具有的影响力。
Mr. Gelb met Barbara Stone, the niece of the violinist Jascha Heifetz and the stepdaughter of The New Yorker writer and playwright S. N. Behrman, in the Times newsroom, where both were working as clerks. They married in 1946, the same year he graduated from N.Y.U. She survives him. Besides his son Peter, Mr. Gelb is also survived by another son, Michael, who designs and builds homes in Massachusetts; four grandchildren (including David Gelb, who directed the documentary film “Jiro Dreams of Sushi”); and one great-grandchild.
盖尔布和芭芭拉·斯通(Barbara Stone)是在时报编辑部相识的，当时两人都是时报的小职员。芭芭拉·斯通是小提琴家雅沙·海飞兹(Jascha Heifetz)的侄女，也是《纽约客》(The New Yorker)作者、剧作家S·N·贝尔曼(S. N. Behrman)的继女。阿瑟·盖尔布与芭芭拉·斯通在1946年结婚，同年盖尔布从纽约大学毕业。盖尔布逝后，芭芭拉仍在世。他在世的家人除了儿子彼得，还有另一个儿子，在马萨诸塞州设计和建造房屋的迈克尔(Michael)；孙辈四人，包括执导纪录片《寿司之神》(Jiro Dreams of Sushi)的戴维·盖尔布(David Gelb)；以及曾孙辈一人。
Mr. Gelb himself conceded: “I’m not sure I would have wanted to work for me when I was an editor. I was well aware that not every reporter was eager to chase down the countless (if sometimes dubious) leads I proposed — and some eyed me as though I were some kind of madman.”
盖尔布承认：“我不敢肯定，自己会不会愿意为我这么一个编辑工作。我很明白，并不是每个记者都会迫不及待地去追我提出的无数线索（那些线索有时可能并不可靠），有人会觉得我仿佛是个疯子。”
But he remembered getting sweet revenge after one particularly frustrating cat-and-mouse game with his staff.
但是他记得，在与记者进行了一次尤具挫败感的猫抓老鼠游戏之后，他得到了自己的甜蜜复仇。
“Just before noon one day, I walked around the city room asking one reporter after another if he happened to be free,” he said. “The first four I approached claimed they were tied up on assignments I’d given them earlier. The fifth, Peter Millones, allowed that he was available. ‘Here’s a ticket to the World Series,’ I said.”
“有一天中午之前，我在都市版的编辑部里问了一个又一个记者，有没有空，”他说。“我问的前四个人都号称，在忙活我之前交给他们的任务。第五个人，彼得·米里恩斯(Peter Millones)说自己能腾出时间来。我说，‘给你一张棒球世界大赛(World Series)的票。’”
For all his bravado, he sometimes stopped to take the measure of himself.
尽管他时常言行莽撞，但有时候也会停下来反省。
Once, as an editor, he cornered a reporter and genially began: “You know what the guys say about me ...”
担任编辑时，他抓住一名记者，和蔼地开始问：“你知道他们都怎么说我吗……”
“Oh, sure,” the reporter replied matter-of-factly.
那名记者实事求是地说道，“嗯，肯定啊。”
“What?” Mr. Gelb demanded.
盖尔布追问，“都说什么？”