ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates — In international soccer, the United Arab Emirates is looking good. The national team finished third at the 2015 Asian Cup continental tournament, and it is stocked with the country’s golden generation of players. The team has a real chance of qualifying for the 2018 World Cup.
阿拉伯联合酋长国阿布扎比——在国际足球赛事上，阿拉伯联合酋长国的表现看上去不错。其国家队集中了该国黄金一代球员，在2015年的亚足联亚洲杯(Asian Cup)中获得了第三名的成绩，而且很有可能会入围2018世界杯。
The 14-team Arabian Gulf League, which professionalized in 2008, is now regarded as one of the best in Asia. One of the clubs, Al Ahli of Dubai, reached the final of the Asian Champions League last year.
于2008年开始职业化的阿联酋阿拉伯海湾联赛(Arabian Gulf League)共有14个俱乐部，目前被认为是亚洲最好的职业赛事之一。其中的迪拜阿赫利(Al Ahli of Dubai)俱乐部，在去年的亚足联冠军联赛(Asian Champions League)中踢进了决赛。
Yet the league still struggles to attract fans, and it is now facing twin threats from the rise of Qatar and China in global soccer that threaten to knock the Emirates down the soccer ladder.
不过，这个联赛依然难以吸引球迷，而且在国际足球领域，它现在面临着来自卡塔尔和中国的双重威胁，后两者有可能会取代阿联酋的位置。
The Emirates, along with Qatar, was seen as a place for European and South American stars to earn big, tax-free salaries in the twilight of their careers. The captain of Italy’s 2006 World Cup winning team, Fabio Cannavaro, ended his career in Dubai with Al Ahli, while David Trezeguet, a member of France’s Cup winner in 1998, played briefly for Baniyas in Abu Dhabi near the end of his career.
过去，阿联酋和卡塔尔被看作欧洲和南美球星在职业生涯的黄昏时期赚取巨额免税工资的地方。2006年赢得世界杯冠军的意大利国家足球队队长法比奥·卡纳瓦罗(Fabio Cannavaro)，就是在迪拜的阿尔阿赫利足球俱乐部度过了职业生涯的最后时期。1998年世界杯冠军法国队的球员戴维·特雷泽盖(David Trezeguet)，也曾于职业生涯末期短暂服役于阿布扎比的巴尼亚斯(Baniyas)俱乐部。
The A-list veterans now go to Major League Soccer, while the younger talents who previously signed with Emirates clubs are heading to China and a league that has spent around $285 million in the transfer market in recent weeks.
如今的一线老球员往往投奔美国职业足球大联盟(Major League Soccer)，而曾和阿联酋俱乐部签约一些较年轻的球员，则转向中国，那里的联赛俱乐部在最近几周已经为球员转会砸下2.85亿美元。
Not only have the most famous clubs in the Emirates been unable to compete financially with the Chinese teams — a decline in oil prices hasn’t helped — but a few have ended up selling to them. In July 2015, three years after joining Al Ain of Abu Dhabi from the English Premier League team Sunderland, Asamoah Gyan joined Shanghai S.I.P.G. for a transfer fee thought to be around $25 million, at the time an Asian transfer record.
阿联酋最知名的俱乐部不仅在财务上难以与中国的足球俱乐部抗衡——石油价格下跌显然是个不利因素，到头来可能还要把球员卖给它们。从英超联赛(Premier League)的桑德兰队(Sunderland)离开，加入阿布扎比的阿尔艾因(Al Ain)俱乐部三年后，阿萨莫阿·吉安(Asamoah Gyan)于2015年7月加入了上海上港集团(SIPG)俱乐部，其转会费据说约为2500万美元，创下当时的亚洲转会费最高纪录。
“Now U.A.E. teams are missing out on players who go to China. I remember a few years ago seeing that big stars went to Abu Dhabi or Dubai. China is now a big destination for players,” Javier Aguirre, coach of Al Wahda, a club in Abu Dhabi, said in January after a victory over Dibba Club of Al Fujayrah. “The money is good there, and there is something happening.”
“现在阿联酋各个球队的球员正在流失，纷纷加入中国球队。我记得几年前，大球星都是来阿布扎比或迪拜。中国现在成了足球明星的一大聚集地，”阿布扎比的阿尔瓦赫达(Al Wahda)队教练哈维尔·阿吉雷(Javier Aguirre)在今年1月战胜富查伊拉的迪巴(Dibba)队时说。“那边给的钱多，情况正在发生变化。”
United Arab Emirates clubs have struggled to attract supporters to the stadium in a culture where many choose to watch games at home or in cafes. Al Wahda’s official attendance against Dibba may have been 1,200, but there seemed to be considerably fewer fans in the stadium. While league games in China and Japan in 2015 averaged about 22,000 and 17,000 fans respectively, the average attendance in the U.A.E. League was 2,529 in the 2014-15 season.
在这样一个许多人习惯在家或咖啡馆看比赛的地方，阿联酋的各个足球俱乐部难以吸引足够的观众到现场观看比赛。官方统计的阿尔瓦赫达对迪巴比赛上座人数可能有1200人，但现场的人数似乎比这个数字要少很多。中国和日本2015年的足球联赛每场比赛平均上座率分别为2.2万和2.7万，而阿联酋的联赛在2014至2015赛季的平均上座率只有2539人。
“It surprised me. If you go to do your job with empty seats, then it is not really good,” Aguirre said. “That is the most difficult part for me. We have the facilities, but we need the fans.”
“我挺吃惊的。如果你去比赛，发现观众席上都是空的，感觉肯定不会太好，”阿吉雷说。“对我来说，这是最大的难题。我们有场地，但我们需要观众。”
Qatar has similar issues, but it also has the 2022 World Cup. The Arabian Gulf League has traditionally been considered stronger than the Qatar Stars League, but there are worries that the World Cup may help change that. (The Qatari club Al Sadd S.C. made the biggest splash among Middle Eastern clubs last year when it signed the former Barcelona playmaker Xavi Hernández to end his career in Doha.)
卡塔尔也有类似的问题，但它有2022年世界杯的主办权。阿联酋阿拉伯海湾联赛通常被认为比卡塔尔星级联赛(Qatar Stars League)更强，但有人担心2022年世界杯有可能会改变这种状况。（去年，卡塔尔阿尔萨德SC[Al Sadd S.C.]俱乐部签下前西班牙球星哈维·埃尔南德斯[Xavi Hernández]，买断其余下合同期一事，曾在中东地区的足球俱乐部中引起极大的轰动。）
“This country has to do something like Qatar,” said Aguirre. “For the World Cup, Qatar is investing. As the World Cup gets closer, many big players will go there. The Emirates has to do something similar.”
“这个国家必须像卡塔尔那样做一些努力，”阿吉雷说。“为了世界杯，卡塔尔正在进行投资。随着世界杯临近，不少大牌球员会转到卡塔尔去。阿联酋必须采取类似的对策。”
Perhaps one way would be for some of the Emirates’ most talented players to go to Europe to challenge themselves against top talents, but few rarely do.
或许有一个办法是，让阿联酋最好的一些球员去挑战欧洲的顶级球员，但他们很少会这么做。
Some may be good enough to. Ali Mabkhout was the top scorer at the 2015 Asian Cup, and Ahmed Khalil was the 2015 Asian Player of the Year. Omar Abdulrahman, a bushy-haired playmaker, is regarded as one of the most talented in Asia and monitored by many of the top clubs in the world.
有些可能确实有这个实力。比如，2015年亚足联亚洲杯最佳球员阿里·马布霍特(Ali Mabkhout)，2015年亚洲足球先生艾哈迈德·哈利勒(Ahmed Khalil)。留着大蓬头的进攻组织者奥马尔·阿卜杜勒拉赫曼(Omar Abdulrahman)如今被认为是亚洲最优秀的球员之一，受到全世界不少顶级俱乐部的密切关注。
Abdulrahman was so impressive at the 2012 Olympics that he was offered a deal by the then-English champion Manchester City. He turned it down. In 2015, after starring at the Asian Cup, he signed a lucrative new deal with Al Ain.
阿卜杜勒拉赫曼在2012年的表现极为引人注目，当时的英超联赛冠军曼彻斯特城(Manchester City)队曾向他发出邀约。但他拒绝了。2015年，结束在亚足联亚洲杯上的优秀表现后，他和阿尔艾因俱乐部签下价格不菲的新合约。
For many players, the opportunity to earn big salaries at home, while paying no taxes, makes it harder to leave. Until the emergence of Abdulrahman, Ismail Matar was the biggest star in the country. The attacker was named the most valuable player at the 2003 World Youth Cup and was widely expected to join the big leagues in Europe. It never happened.
对许多球员来说，在家门口就可以赚大钱，而且不用纳税，这样的机会让他们更加难以离开。在阿卜杜勒拉赫曼出现以前，伊斯梅尔·马塔尔(Ismail Matar)是这个国家最著名的球星。这名进攻型球员曾在2003年的世界青少年杯赛(World Youth Cup )上被评为最有价值球员，业内当时普遍认为他会加入欧洲的某个俱乐部。这个预测并没有变成现实。
“I played against a lot of big names at that time like Seedorf, Vieira, the de Boers and they all said the same thing, “Why you don’t play in Europe?”’ said Matar. “I know I have the quality to play there, but I didn’t have the chance.”
“当时我和西多夫、维埃拉、德波尔兄弟等许多大牌球星较量过，他们都说过同样的话，‘你干嘛不来欧洲踢球？’”马塔尔说。“我知道自己有能力在那里踢球，但我没有这样的机会。”
Traditionally, the owners of clubs in the country have been reluctant to let stars go. In 2008, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, the crown prince of Dubai and the president of Al Ahli, intervened to stop striker Faisal Khalil from moving to France.
阿联酋各个俱乐部的老板们通常不愿放自己的球星走。2008年，迪拜王储、阿尔阿赫利俱乐部总裁谢赫穆罕默德·本·拉希德·阿勒马克图姆(Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum)曾出面阻止该俱乐部前锋费萨尔·哈利勒(Faisal Khalil)加入法国的球队。
“If they go to the next step and sending people to Europe, then the league will be better,” said Aguirre, who has also coached the Japanese and Mexican national teams and several teams in Spain’s top tier. “They have a good league, good players, and salaries, but they need to put some young Emirate players in other countries, like Japan and Mexico do.”
“如果他们采取下一步行动，送球员到欧洲去，那么这里的联赛可能会比现在更好，”阿吉雷说，他也曾在日本和墨西哥的国家队，以及西班牙的几个顶级俱乐部队执教。“这里有不错的联赛，有好球员，薪水也不错，但他们需要把一些年轻的阿联酋球员放到其他国家锻炼锻炼，比如日本和墨西哥。”
“Omar Abdulrahman can play in any part of the world,” Aguirre said. “In my opinion, it is not about money, it is about this kind of life, this kind of pressure. They are in a comfort zone here.”
“奥马尔·阿卜杜勒拉赫曼可以进世界上任何一个球队踢球，”阿吉雷。“在我看来，这不是钱的事，而是那种生活，那种压力。这里对他们来说就是个安乐窝。”
The Emirates qualified for the World Cup once, in 1990, but Matar believes that the current golden generation can qualify for the 2018 tournament in Russia and give the local game a lift. “Japan, Australia and Iran are not the same as before,” he said. “We have the quality and for me, it is easy.”
阿联酋曾在1990年入围世界杯，但马塔尔认为，目前的黄金一代球员有能力让阿联酋入围2018年的俄罗斯世界杯，由此提振本国赛事。“日本、澳大利亚和伊朗队实力不比从前了，”他说。“我们现在有这个能力，在我看来，这并不难。”