WASHINGTON — Syria’s top leaders amassed one of the world’s largest stockpiles of chemical weapons with help from the Soviet Union and Iran, as well as Western European suppliers and even a handful of American companies, according to American diplomatic cables and declassified intelligence records.
华盛顿——美国外交电文和解密情报记录显示，在苏联、伊朗、西欧供应商及少数几家美国公司的帮助下，叙利亚最高领导人积聚起了全世界最大的化学武器储备之一。
While an expanding group of nations banded together in the 1980s to try to block the Syrian effort, prohibiting the sale of goods that would bolster the growing chemical weapons stockpile, the archives show that Syria’s governing Assad family exploited large loopholes, lax enforcement and a far greater international emphasis on limiting the spread of nuclear arms.
尽管在上世纪80年代，越来越多的国家联合起来，禁止向叙利亚出售有助于该国不断扩大化学武器储备的商品，试图以此制约叙利亚追求化学武器的努力。但相关档案表明，由于条款存在漏洞、执行不力，此外国际社会也更重视制止核武器的扩散，执掌叙利亚的阿萨德家族钻了空子。
Now, as President Obama confronts enormous difficulties in rallying a reluctant Congress and a skeptical world to punish the Syrian government with a military strike over what is said to be its apparent use of deadly nerve agents last month, he appears to be facing a similar challenge to the one that allowed the Assads to accumulate their huge stockpile. While countries around the world condemned Syria for adding to its arsenal as most nations were eliminating their own, few challenged the buildup, and some were eager to profit from it.
在上个月发生一起据称显然是致死神经毒气袭击的事件之后，奥巴马总统正在承受着重重困难，试图说服不情不愿的国会、拉拢心存怀疑的世界其他国家，用军事打击对叙利亚政府进行惩罚。此时奥巴马面临的挑战，似乎与当初允许阿萨德家族积聚起巨大化武储备的那个挑战极为相似。在多数国家都在削减自身的化学武器时，叙利亚却在增加储备。然而尽管世界各国都予以谴责，但没有几个国家对叙利亚积累化武的行为发出过挑战。
“It was frustrating,” Juan C. Zarate, a former deputy national security adviser for combating terrorism in the George W. Bush administration, recalled Friday.
乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府时期负责反恐事务的副国家安全顾问胡安·C·萨拉特(Juan C. Zarate)周五回忆说，“太令人沮丧了。”
“People tried. There were always other understandably urgent priorities — Iran’s nuclear program, North Korea,” said Mr. Zarate, who has written a book about American efforts to crack down on illegal financing for terrorist groups and states including Syria, Iran and North Korea. “It was an issue that was always there, but never rose to the top of the world’s agenda.”
“人们努力了。可是总有其他一些可想而知十分紧迫的事情需要优先处理，比如伊朗核计划和朝鲜问题，”萨拉特说，“这是一个尽管一直都存在，但却从未上升为世界首要议程的问题。”萨拉特写过一本书，主题是美国打击为恐怖组织和一些国家提供非法融资的举措，这些国家包括叙利亚、伊朗和朝鲜。
Proliferation experts said President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and his father before him, former President Hafez al-Assad, were greatly helped in their chemical weapons ambitions by a basic underlying fact: often innocuous, legally exportable materials are also the precursors to manufacturing deadly chemical weapons.
研究武器扩散的专家表示，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)和他的前任，即他的父亲哈菲兹·阿萨德(Hafez al-Assad)，在追求化武野心的过程中，极大地受惠于一个基本事实：可以合法出口且通常无害的物质，也是制造致命性化学武器的前体。
Soon after Mr. Obama came to office, newly installed officials grew increasingly alarmed by the ease with which Mr. Assad was using a network of front companies to import the precursors needed to make VX and sarin, deadly chemical poisons that are internationally banned, according to leaked diplomatic cables from WikiLeaks, the antisecrecy group.
阿萨德可以得心应手地利用一众掩护公司，进口制造VX毒气和沙林毒气时所需的前体。反秘密组织维基解密(WikiLeaks)公布的外交电文显示，奥巴马上台后不久，这种局面就让新就职的官员越来越警惕。VX毒气和沙林毒气是被国际社会禁用的致命化学毒剂。
Sarin gas has been identified by the United States as the agent loaded atop small rockets on Aug. 21 and shot into the densely populated suburbs of Damascus, killing more than 1,400 people, according to administration officials.
政府官员称，美国已确定，8月21日装载在小火箭顶部并被发射到大马士革人口密集的郊区的化学制剂是沙林毒气。毒气造成1400多人死亡。
The growth of Syria’s ability was the subject of a sharply worded secret cable transmitted by the State Department under Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton’s name in the fall of 2009. It instructed diplomats to “emphasize that failure to halt the flow” of chemicals and equipment into Syria, Iran and North Korea could render irrelevant a group of antiproliferation countries that organized to stop that flow.
2009年秋天，美国国务院以时任国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)的名义，发出了一封措辞严厉的密电，主题便是叙利亚制造化学武器的能力出现增强。密电指示外交官“要重视，如果不能阻止”化学制剂和设备“流入”叙利亚、伊朗和朝鲜，一群为这个目标组织起来，反对武器扩散的国家所做的努力，就会变得无关紧要。
The cable was included in a trove of State Department messages leaked to WikiLeaks in 2010.
这份电报包含在2010年泄露给维基解密的大量国务院电文之中。
Another leaked State Department cable on the Syrians asserted that “part of their modus operandi is to hide procurement under the guise of legitimate pharmaceutical or other transactions.”
另一份外泄的涉及叙利亚的国务院电报称，“他们的部分典型做法是用合法的药品贸易或其他交易当幌子，掩盖采购行为。”
Publicly, American officials contend that they have done much since then to limit the flow of raw materials that feed Syria’s chemical weapons industry, in particular Syria’s Scientific Studies and Research Center, which has been identified as a principal government enterprise for weapons development. Israel struck a missile convoy outside the center in January, American intelligence officials have said, on suspicions that weapons were headed for delivery to Hezbollah in Lebanon.
美国官员公开称，自那时起，为了限制有助于叙利亚化学武器行业，尤其是叙利亚科学研究中心(Scientific Studies and Research Center)的原料流入叙利亚，他们已经做了很多工作。科学研究中心已被确认是从事武器研发的主要政府机构。美国情报官员表示，以色列1月在该中心外袭击了一支运送导弹的车队，因为怀疑武器最终将交给黎巴嫩真主党(Hezbollah)。
“For several years, the Treasury Department, working with our partners across the U.S. government, has taken steps to expose and disrupt the Syrian regime’s W.M.D. proliferation activities,” David S. Cohen, the Treasury under secretary in charge of sanctions, said in an e-mailed statement. “We will continue to use all of our authorities to undermine the Syrian government’s W.M.D. proliferation efforts within Syria as well as around the world.”
“几年来，财政部(Treasury Department)同美国政府内部的伙伴通力合作，已采取措施揭露和破坏叙利亚政权扩散大规模杀伤性武器的活动，”财政部负责制裁事宜的副部长戴维·S·科恩(David S. Cohen)在一封通过电子邮件发出的声明中说，“我们将继续动用一切权力，钳制叙利亚政府在叙利亚国内和全世界扩散大规模杀伤性武器的活动。”
The diplomatic cables and other intelligence documents show that, over time, the two generations of Assads built up a huge stockpile by creating companies with the appearance of legitimacy, importing chemicals that had many legitimate uses and capitalizing on the chaos that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union. A Russian general responsible for dismantling old Soviet chemical weapons, who died a decade ago, was identified by a colleague as the man who helped the Syrian government establish its chemical weapons program.
外交电报和其他情报文档显示，阿萨德家族两代人通过创办表面上正当的公司，进口有很多正当用途的化学制剂，利用了苏联垮台后的混乱，建立起一个巨大的武器储备。一名负责销毁苏联旧有化学武器的俄罗斯将军被同僚指认，称他帮助叙利亚政府建立了化武项目，这位将军已于十年前去世。
As early as 1991, under the first Bush presidency, a now declassified National Intelligence Estimate concluded that “both Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union provided the chemical agents, delivery systems and training that flowed to Syria.” The same report concluded that Syria most likely possessed 500-kilogram aerial bombs containing sarin — larger, it appears, than the warheads mounted atop rockets that killed so many in the Ghouta suburbs of Damascus on Aug. 21.
早在1991年老布什总统任内，一份现已解密的《国家情报评估》报告(National Intelligence Estimate)就得出结论，称“捷克斯洛伐克和苏联都提供了流向叙利亚的化学毒剂、施放系统和培训支持”。这份报告还断言，叙利亚很有可能拥有500公斤装载了沙林毒气的航空炸弹——这个数量看来比8月21日落在大马士革郊区古塔、造成大量伤亡的火箭弹头要多。
While investigations by the United Nations into the attack remain incomplete, a group of outside academic experts reported last week that some of the warheads used contained 100 kilograms or more of sarin agent.
联合国对袭击事件的调查尚未完成，上周一份外界学者小组发布的报告称，其中一些弹头中包含100公斤的沙林毒剂，也许更多。
But even with such a large stockpile of weapons on hand, the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., reported to Congress earlier this year that Syria “remains dependent on foreign sources for key elements” of its program. That dependence points to an important vulnerability that the West may be able to exploit as it tries to stop Syria from expanding its program.
然而，尽管有如此大规模的储备，今年早些时候国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)在向国会报告时称，叙利亚的化武项目“在关键成分上仍需要依靠外国供应”。这种依赖是一个重要的弱点，西方国家要尝试阻止叙利亚扩大其项目，也许可以利用这一点。
The most detailed and highly classified cables in the WikiLeaks trove underscore that, while Syria has the ability to make chemical weapons, it relies heavily on other nations for getting precursor ingredients that can also be used for medicine.
维基解密的资料中最详尽、最机密的电报突显了叙利亚的这种弱点，尽管有制造化学武器的能力，它还是严重依赖从其他国家进口前体原料，这些原料同时也可以用于医药制剂。
Crucial chemicals and the missiles to deliver them have come not just from nations long allied with the Assad government, like Iran and Russia, but also from China (sometimes operating through North Korea) and a variety of Western nations, the cables and other documents show. In a few instances, American companies became players in Syria’s efforts to add to the sophistication of its stores.
电报和其他文档显示，关键的化学制剂以及用于投放的导弹不只是来自阿萨德政府的长期盟友，比如伊朗和俄罗斯，中国（有时会通过朝鲜进行运作）和许多西方国家也在其中。在某些案例中，叙利亚改进化武储备技术水平的行动，还得到了美国公司的帮助。
One of the best-known cases in the United States involved a Waterville, Me., company once known as Maine Biological Laboratories. The company and several top executives were found guilty of allowing a series of shipments to Syria in 2001, including restricted biological agents.
和美国有关的最著名案例中，有一宗涉及缅因州沃特维尔的一家公司，名叫缅因生物实验室(Maine Biological Laboratories)。该公司以及多名高管被裁定在2001年非法向叙利亚运送了一系列货物，其中包括违禁的生物制剂。
That was one of several instances that involved deals with American firms, the cables show. In another case, an unidentified American company sold potassium cyanide to a Syrian pediatric hospital in 2006, but made no effort to check whether it was used for treating patients, as the Syrians had insisted was done, or instead was diverted for making chemical weapons.
这是外交电文显示有美国公司参与的若干宗案例中的一个。在另一案中，一家未标出身份的美国公司在2006年向叙利亚一家儿童医院出售了氰化钾，但没有去核查药剂是像叙利亚人坚称的那样用于治疗病人，还是被转用作化学武器生产。
A March 2006 State Department cable from the American Embassy in Damascus described how Syrians seemed to be exploiting trade with the West. “Syrian businessmen regularly report on the ease with which their fellow businessmen illegally import U.S. commodities with seeming impunity, as well as express concerns that the USG’s lack of enforcement of the economic sanctions” are “hurting those that choose to play by the rules.”
2006年3月由美国驻大马士革使馆发给国务院的电文中表示，叙利亚人似乎在利用和西方国家的贸易。“经常有叙利亚商人报告，他们的商界同行可以非法进口美国商品，看起来不会受到处罚，同时他们对美国政府的经济制裁执行不力表示了担忧，”称这样“伤害了那些遵守规则的人”。
Those transactions presumably included chemicals that could be precursors for chemical warfare.
那些交易据推测包括了可以用作化学武器前体的化学制剂。
Proliferation-monitoring officials attribute some of this failure to a simple lack of government resources to police the enormous volume of international chemical transactions, the globalization of that industry, and a greater concern about monitoring nuclear weapons.
负责监视武器扩散的官员将这种不力的部分原因归结为，政府资源匮乏导致无力监管规模庞大的国际化学品交易，同时还有该产业的全球化，以及注意力更多地被放在核武器监管上。
“Precursor chemicals have not gotten the same attention as the nuclear trade,” said one Congressional expert, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to talk about investigative findings. “It’s been a known problem for a long time, and yet it happens.”
“前体化学品所得到的关注不及核贸易，”一位国会专家说，这位专家因无权谈论调查发现，要求在本文中匿名。“这长期以来一直是个问题，但事情还是发生了。”