BEIRUT — As President Bashar Assad of Syria faces the increasing likelihood of a U.S.-led missile strike, his detractors and defenders alike are asking, Why would he launch a deadly chemical attack on a scale not yet seen in his country's civil war — as U.S. and allied officials assert that his loyalists did last week — when he seemed to be holding his own in the stalemated conflict and just as international weapons inspectors arrived in the country?
贝鲁特——眼看着美国为首的导弹打击日益成为可能，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar Assad)的反对者和支持者们都在问，当他在这场陷入僵局的冲突中占据主动，并且国际武器调查员正来到这里时，为什么要发起一次在本国的内战中前所未有的大规模化学武器袭击，造成重大伤亡——美国及其盟国的官员都确信上周的袭击是忠于他的人发起的。
Assad's allies have tried to cast doubt on the allegations by saying there would have been no logical benefit for his government in launching the attack. And even some of those advocating a military response have expressed puzzlement over why he would take one of the few actions that could push a reluctant U.S. government to respond.
阿萨德的支持者试图对有关袭击的指控提出质疑，称发起这样的袭击对他的政府没有什么合乎情理的好处。甚至一些呼吁做出军事反应的人也表达了疑惑，能让心不甘、情不愿的美国政府做出反应的举动就那么几种，为什么偏偏要选择这么做。
If the Syrian government is responsible for the attack, which it denies, the reasons for it are known only to Assad's inner circle. But military analysts say that he and his loyalists may have had ample reasons that made sense to them: further terrorizing rebel supporters, projecting confidence by defying the international community or simply wanting to raise the military pressure on some of the most stubborn and strategic pockets of rebel fighters and their backers.
叙利亚政府否认曾发起袭击，但如果的确是其所为，那么原因只有最接近阿萨德的人才知道。而军事分析人士说，在他和他的追随者看来，这么做可能是非常有必要的：要进一步恐吓支持叛乱分子的人，表达藐视国际社会的决心，或者根本就是向反叛武装及其支持者表现最顽强、最具战略价值的部分地区施加军事压力。
“What makes military and strategic sense to Assad may not make military and strategic sense to us,” said Emile Hokayem, a military analyst at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “Assad is fighting his own fight on his terms and on the timing of his choosing. He may have made a mistake this time — perhaps he didn't mean to kill that many or assumed the international community had become less sensitive — but it doesn't mean that it didn't make sense from his perspective.”
“在阿萨德看来有军事和战略意义的事，可能我们不觉得有意义，”国际战略研究所(International Institute for Strategic Studies)军事分析师埃米尔·霍卡彦姆(Emile Hokayem)说。“阿萨德根据自己选择的时机，以自己的方式，进行着自己的战斗。可能他这次犯了一个错误——可能他没打算杀那么多人，或者以为国际社会现在没那么敏感了——但这都不表示从他的角度看这么做就是没道理的。”
The attack, which killed hundreds of people in heavily bombarded suburbs east and southwest of Damascus, the capital, appears to have been by far the most widespread and deadliest use of chemical weapons in Syria, where toxic gases have been used in several smaller attacks over the past year, with each side accusing the other of using the internationally banned weapons.
在遭到密集轰炸的首都大马士革东部和西南部郊区有数百人丧生，这已经成为叙利亚有史以来范围最大、死亡人数最多的一次化学武器袭击，过去一年里，叙利亚发生过多起规模较小的毒气袭击，交战双方都指责是对方在使用被全球禁用的武器。
Yet in some ways the episode may represent more of a continuity with the conduct of this war than a departure from it. During 2 1/2 years of conflict, Assad has slowly increased the intensity of attacks on civilian neighborhoods where rebels have found support. Hokayem calls it a strategy of “gradual escalation and desensitization” of the public in Syria and abroad.
然而从某些方面看，这起事件并没有偏离这场战争的一贯表现，反而是一种延续。在两年半的冲突中，阿萨德对向叛乱组织提供支持的平民居住区渐渐增强了攻击力度。霍卡彦姆称，这种做法是针对叙利亚和外国公众实施的一种“逐步升级和脱敏”的战略。
Government forces have used blunt and imprecise conventional weapons, firing Scud missiles and unleashing artillery bombardments and airstrikes on neighborhoods, in attacks that seem aimed more at sowing fear and punishing populations than at specific tactical gains. While last week's killings appear to have been the largest mass slaughter of the war, conventional weapons have killed many times more people than chemicals have.
以前政府军使用粗糙的、不精确的常规武器，向居民区发射飞毛腿导弹，发动火炮攻击和空袭，目的似乎更多的是制造恐怖气氛，惩戒全体居民，并不求具体的战术收获。上周的攻击已经成为开战以来规模最大的一场屠杀，然而常规武器杀的人比化学武器多出太多。
Even after Western governments declared that Syrian government forces had used banned chemical weapons like the nerve agent sarin, crossing what President Barack Obama had once called a “red line,” the attacks provoked little visible response.
尽管西方国家政府已经表示，叙利亚政府军使用了神经毒气沙林这样的违禁化学武器，越过了奥巴马总统所说的“红线”，但这次的袭击还是没有引起多少明确的反应。
And in recent weeks, with the United States and its allies increasingly queasy about Islamic extremists among Assad's fractious opponents and the prospect that his fall would bring even greater chaos to the country and the region, Assad could watch Egypt's generals preside over the killing of more than 1,000 Islamist protesters, also with few international repercussions.
最近数周，美国及其盟友对阿萨德的反对者当中的伊斯兰派极端分子越发厌恶。而且反对派内部并不统一。阿萨德的倒台可能会给这个国家乃至整个地区带来更大的混乱。此外，阿萨德也看到，埃及军方将领督阵，杀害了超过1000名伊斯兰派示威者，但却没有承担什么国际后果。
Some analysts say that a growing sense of impunity may have led Assad to believe that he could get away with an attack much larger than past ones. Others say they suspect that he intended only an incremental increase in the use of chemicals and that a tactical error led to last week's much higher death toll, and to the pictures of children's bodies shrouded in white that provoked a new level of international outrage.
一些分析人士表示，不会受到惩罚的感觉越来越强，这可能促使阿萨德相信，他即使开展一次比过去规模大很多的袭击，也能全身而退。其他人表示，他们怀疑阿萨德只是希望小幅增加化学制剂的用量，但一次战术失误导致上周死亡人数大幅提高，也导致儿童的尸体裹着白布的画面传出，进而激发了国际社会更为炙烈的怒火。
On the eve of the Aug. 21 attack, Assad's forces had consolidated gains around the central city of Homs, aiming to secure the heavily populated corridor running from Damascus through the government's coastal strongholds to the divided northern city of Aleppo. But the capital remained ringed by restive suburbs where by some estimates half the population stayed despite relentless shelling, and where the government has been unable to decisively dislodge rebels.
在8月21日袭击前夕，阿萨德的部队巩固了在中部城市霍姆斯周边取得的胜利，目的是彻底掌控从大马士革，到政府军在沿海的据点，再到已经陷入分裂的北方城市阿勒颇的这块人口稠密的走廊。然而首都周围的郊区却仍然动荡不安。一些人估计，尽管遭受炮击，仍有一半人口留在当地，而在这些地区，政府一直未能决定性地剪除反对派武装势力。
Yezid Sayigh, an analyst of Arab militaries at the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut, said government forces had used chemical weapons in small amounts several times to incapacitate fighters on front lines as it tries to take specific areas and could have been trying to do so on a somewhat larger scale in last week's attack.
耶齐德·萨伊赫(Yezid Sayigh)在位于贝鲁特的卡内基中东中心(Carnegie Middle East Center)担任阿拉伯国家军事分析师。他表示，政府军已经若干次使用少量化学武器，目的是在尝试夺取特定区域时，使作战人员在前线上失去战斗能力。上周的袭击可能也是想以略大的规模，做同样的事情。
Although it might seem strange to use chemical weapons during a visit by U.N. weapons inspectors, the deterrent effect of international observers has been overestimated in the past, said Hokayem of the strategic studies institute, noting that some of the first large-scale massacres in the conflict took place during a visit by U.N. observers.
尽管在联合国武器调查人员巡视期间动用化学武器或许显得很奇怪，但战略研究所的霍卡彦姆表示，国际观察员的威慑作用在过去被夸大了，他提到这场冲突中最初的一些大规模屠杀，就是在联合国观察员来访时发生的。
Analysts said the possibility that the attack was by a rogue commander seemed remote, as did the idea that the attack was desperate and irrational.
分析人士表示，袭击由擅自行动的指挥官发起的可能性似乎很小。袭击是在走投无路、失去理性的情况下发动的可能性也同样很小。
The security forces have remained relatively cohesive and organized. The government has scaled back its military goals, recognizing that it cannot fight everywhere at once, but it displays a greater ability than the rebels to systematically make decisions about allocating resources and weapons to areas it considers important at a particular time.
相对而言，安全部队仍然组织紧密。政府降低了其在军事上的目标，承认它不能同时在所有地方作战，但与反对派武装相比，政府军仍然表现出了更强的系统决策能力，能在特定的时间将武器和资源部署到它认为重要的地区。
Syria's allies Russia and Iran have said the attack was carried out by rebels, who produce many homemade weapons. But the government has also used seemingly improvised weapons in conjunction with standard ones, as when its forces dropped barrel bombs from helicopters.
叙利亚的盟友俄罗斯和伊朗已经表示，袭击是由反对派武装实施的，他们制造了很多土制武器。然而政府军也会配合常规武器使用似乎并不正规的武器，例如，他们曾从直升机上投掷油桶炸弹，。
Sayigh of the Carnegie Middle East Center noted that the Syrian government was accused of similar miscalculations in the past, like taking a tacit or active role in the assassination of Lebanon's former prime minister, Rafik Hariri, in 2005 — an event that led to Syria's withdrawal of its occupying forces from Lebanon under pressure.
卡内基中东中心的萨伊赫指出，叙利亚政府被指在过去就有过类似的误判，如在黎巴嫩前总理拉菲克·哈里里(Rafik Hariri)遇刺事件中扮演了默许或主动的角色。这一事件使叙利亚迫于压力，将占领军从黎巴嫩撤出。
“They are used to acting in blunt ways,” he said. “Now and then they miscalculate.”
“他们过去常常鲁莽行事，”他说。“也会时不时地犯错误。”