BEIRUT — President Bashar al-Assad of Syria appeared to be in a jovial mood late last week, even while facing a threatened American attack, joking with a visiting Yemeni delegation about the political mess in nearby Egypt and deriding his regional rivals as “half men.”
贝鲁特——上周晚些时候，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)似乎心情愉悦，尽管面临着美国的攻击威胁，他依然同到访的也门代表团拿邻国埃及的政治混乱开玩笑，还嘲笑他在该地区的对手“不够男人”。
Damascus was tense — streets deadly quiet, residents stockpiling food, wives and children of the elite sent hastily abroad. But Mr. Assad kept up appearances, greeting visitors at the entrance to the boxy white presidential palace atop a hill or to his small personal office in a wooded glen nearby. “He is not hiding,” a Syrian journalist noted.
大马士革的局势很紧张，街道如死一般寂静，民众纷纷储备食物，精英人士的妻小都被匆匆送往了国外。但阿萨德却不停地露面，在位于山顶四四方方的总统府，或是在附近树木繁茂的峡谷里他那个私人小办公室门口欢迎访客。“他没有躲起来，”一名叙利亚记者说。
That has been his strategy, echoed in the public activities of his glamorous wife, Asma, since the March 2011 beginning of the conflict — to act as if nothing untoward is happening, as if the gory civil war that has laid waste to Syria is taking place in a different realm. Mrs. Assad, rail thin, was even photographed recently wearing a trendy fitness band on her wrist.
这正是阿萨德的策略。自2011年3月冲突开始以来，他那魅力四射的妻子阿斯玛(Asma)在公开活动中也一直表现得似乎没有什么麻烦事发生，摧毁叙利亚的血腥内战似乎是发生在别的地方。前不久，瘦削的阿斯玛甚至还被拍到手腕上戴着一个时髦的健身手环。
“He doesn’t give the impression that he is bloodthirsty or that he’s a man of war,” said Talal Salman, the editor of Al-Safir newspaper in Beirut, who was once close to the Syrian leader but broke with him early over the bloody crackdown against peaceful protesters. “He does not give the sense that he’s going to battle.”
“他没有给人留下残忍或好战的印象，”《使者报》(Al-Safir)驻贝鲁特的编辑塔拉勒·萨勒曼(Talal Salman)说，“没让人觉得他就要与人交战了。”萨勒曼曾一度和阿萨德关系紧密，但很早就因对和平抗议者的血腥镇压与其分道扬镳。
But behind the veneer of normality, Mr. Assad has grown increasingly aggressive, declaring his determination to wipe out the opposition, insisting that he is standing against an imperialist enemy. Gone from at least his public statements is any talk of finding a political settlement, while he ratchets up his military drive to try to regain lost territory.
但在一切正常的表象背后，阿萨德变得越来越咄咄逼人。他宣称自己决心彻底消灭反对派，而且坚称正在对抗帝国主义敌人。至少在公开声明中，他已经不再谈论寻求政治和解，同时他还加大了军事行动的力度，努力收复失地。
For two and a half years, the president has never wavered from his position that the uprising is a foreign plot — and he continues to refuse to express any responsibility or remorse for the blood washing over Syria. He has steadfastly rejected calling it a civil war.
两年半来，阿萨德认为民变是外国势力的阴谋这一立场从未动摇过，他依然拒绝为叙利亚全国各地发生的流血表示负责或懊悔。他也坚决反对将其称为内战。
In an interview with the French newspaper Le Figaro published on Monday, Mr. Assad said, “In the beginning, the solution should have been found through a dialogue from which political measures would have been born.”
周一出版的法国《费加罗报》(Le Figaro)上刊登了一则阿萨德的采访。阿萨德在采访中表示，“起初，本应该通过对话找到解决方案，从对话中会产生出政治措施。”
That is no longer the case, he said, repeating his constant refrain that 90 percent of the opposition fighters are terrorists affiliated with Al Qaeda. “The only way to cope with them is to liquidate them,” he said. “Only then will we be able to discuss political measures.”
但他表示，现在情况不一样了。他重申了一直以来的论调，称90%的反对派武装都是附属于基地组织(Al Qaeda)的恐怖分子。“对付他们的唯一办法就是消灭他们，”他说，“只有那时，我们才能讨论政治措施。”
Mr. Assad, who turns 48 next week, was never meant to rule. Bashar was the second son, summoned home from his training as an ophthalmologist in Britain in 1994 after his macho older brother, Bassel, died driving his Mercedes-Benz too fast on the Damascus airport road. But even before he inherited the presidency from his father, Hafez, in 2000, Syrians hoped he would bring change. They even called him “The Hope.”
下周便48岁的巴沙尔·阿萨德本不会成为统治者，他是家里的次子。1994年，他颇具男子气概的哥哥巴西勒(Bassel)，在大马士革的机场公路上驾驶梅塞德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)时，因车速过快发生车祸丧生。因此他才被召回家中，结束了在英国的眼科学习。在巴沙尔2000年接替父亲哈菲兹(Hafez)担任总统之前，叙利亚民众就开始希望他能带来变革，甚至把他称作“希望”。
He championed computers at a time when the government still registered fax machines. He spoke English. He married a well-educated, beautiful woman and drove her to the opera in the family Audi. He described the oppressive Baath Party that his father had built as “a corpse on his shoulders,” Mr. Salman remembered.
在叙利亚政府仍然要对传真机进行登记时，他就推广电脑。他会说英语，娶了一位受过良好教育的漂亮女士，还开着奥迪(Audi)家用车带她去看歌剧。萨勒曼记得，阿萨德曾说过，他父亲建立的专制政党复兴社会党(Baath Party)是他“肩头背负的尸体”。
But Mr. Assad ultimately balked at challenging his father’s legacy. Instead the president never seriously entertained the idea that reform required fundamentally altering the police state that his father had begun constructing in 1970.
但最终，阿萨德在挑战他父亲的遗产上退缩了。他也从未真正认为，要进行改革就需要从根本上变革这个警察国家。阿萨德的父亲在1970年便开始打造这个警察国家。
To this day he believes that system can be resurrected.
他至今仍相信能够复兴这个体制。
“This is his mood,” said Samir al-Taqi, a heart surgeon once close to the president who fled into exile even before the uprising. “He thinks he can return and resume ruling as he did before.”
“这就是他的想法，”心外科医生萨米尔·塔基(Samir al-Taqi)说，“他觉得自己还能扭转局势，像以前那样继续统治国家。”塔基曾和阿萨德关系紧密，但在民变发生前便流亡国外了。
The Instagram account established by the presidential palace pumps out a constant stream of carefully staged pictures showing the president and his wife carrying out their official functions. Here he is giving a speech about economic development, even as the economy has virtually ceased to function. There she is sweating over a huge vat of food to be distributed to the families of fallen soldiers for the feast marking the end of the holy month of Ramadan.
总统府的Instagram帐号不断贴出精心排演的照片，显示总统与夫人正在行使正式职能：比如总统正在发表有关经济发展的讲话，即使经济实际上已经陷入停顿；又比如在庆祝斋月结束的宴会上，总统夫人正在卖力地把一大盆食物分发给阵亡士兵的家属。
The war has curbed the couple’s unscripted public appearances. Mortar shells have crashed into Malki, the leafy upscale neighborhood of Damascus where they still live with their three children.
战争已经限制了总统夫妇未经安排的公开露面。迫击炮弹打到了大马士革绿树成荫的高档社区马勒基，他们和三个孩子仍然住在那里。
The reality is that the war has entered a stalemate, and while Mr. Assad’s forces have scored some recent victories, he presides over a fraction of Syria. His violent reaction to the uprising led what was once a proudly secular society into a largely sectarian conflict between the majority Sunni Muslims and his small minority of Alawites, an obscure branch of Shiite Islam.
现实情况是，战争已经进入僵持阶段，虽然阿萨德的部队最近取得了一些胜利，但他控制的地盘却很小。他以暴力应对民变，致使一个曾经自豪的世俗社会，陷入了一场以宗派冲突为主的战争，冲突一方是占多数的逊尼派穆斯林，另一方则是阿萨德所属的规模很小的少数派，阿拉维派(Alawites)。后者是伊斯兰教什叶派中一个鲜为人知的分支。
“For him there is nothing to lose,” a Damascus-based analyst said, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of reprisal. “He cannot compromise. He has to see this through. He cannot rebuild; he cannot reconcile. He is stuck. He can rule over a pile of rubble — that is the best he can do.”
“他已经孤注一掷，”一位住在大马士革的分析人士说。“他不能让步，必经坚持下去。他不能开展重建；不能跟对方和解。他十分顽固，宁肯统治一片废墟——这是他最好的下场。”由于害怕遭到报复，这位分析人士要求匿名。
The state propaganda apparatus seized on President Obama’s decision to submit the proposed attack to a Congressional vote as a great victory for Mr. Assad, referring to it as a “historic American retreat” and portraying anyone insufficiently vocal in support of the government as a “traitor.”
奥巴马总统把发动攻击的动议提交给国会表决的决定，被叙利亚政府的宣传部门抓住大做文章，称这是阿萨德的伟大胜利，是“美国人的历史性退缩”；宣传部门还把所有支持政府不够积极的人称作“叛徒”。
“The fact that it is being threatened is a very comfortable zone for this regime, which has been under threats and sanctions for decades,” said Fadi Salem, a Syrian political analyst based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. “It is a playground where they are very good at playing.”
“对于叙利亚政府来说，现在美国的威胁其实是小菜一碟，因为几十年来它一直都在遭受威胁和制裁。”住在阿拉伯联合酋长国迪拜的叙利亚政治分析人士法迪·萨利姆(Fadi Salem)说，“在这个方面，他们非常擅长。”
If Mr. Assad maintained a calm demeanor, the threat of an American attack rattled many, particularly government supporters. Syrians wondered how far the Americans would go — something drastic or something limited to signal disapproval of what the White House said was a poison gas attack that killed more than 1,400 people in the Damascus suburbs on Aug. 21.
面对美国发动攻击的威胁，尽管阿萨德保持冷静沉着，但其他很多人还是感到惊慌，特别是政府的支持者。叙利亚人在揣度美国会采取多大的动作，是极端的行动，还是仅仅对白宫所说的，8月21日在大马士革郊区造成1400余人死亡的毒气袭击，发出不认可的信号。
Ayman Abdel Nour, a college friend of the president’s who now opposes him, said Mr. Assad had been assuring those around him — including the knot of relatives who remain his closest advisers — that the West was bluffing. The president argued that Washington would not move to unseat him because the main alternative, the increasingly Islamist opposition, was far worse in Western eyes. That also appears to be the main basis for much of the support he has left among Syrians.
艾曼·阿卜杜勒·努尔(Ayman Abdel Nour)是阿萨德大学时代的一个朋友，现在是他的反对者，他说阿萨德向他身边的人——包括一些亲戚，他们仍然是他最亲密的顾问——保证说，西方是在虚张声势。阿萨德认为，华盛顿不会真的采取行动来推翻他，因为那样一来，日趋伊斯兰化的反对派就会取而代之。而在西方人眼里，他们比阿萨德糟糕多了。这似乎也是一些叙利亚人还在支持他的主要原因。
“This is what Bashar Assad has told the top elite: that it will be a cosmetic attack,” Mr. Abdel Nour said in a telephone interview from Los Angeles. “They believe it deeply.”
“巴沙尔·阿萨德对高层精英说：只会是一场象征性的袭击，”阿卜杜勒·努尔在洛杉矶接受电话采访时说。“他们对此深信不疑。”
With such an opaque regime, discerning its real thoughts can be a challenge. But many analysts believe that a cosmetic attack would help rejuvenate Mr. Assad’s fortunes, at least temporarily, adding to the decades-long list of confrontations with the West in which Syria has prevailed merely by waiting out the uproar, by surviving.
鉴于叙利亚政权透明度极差，识别它的真实想法可能很困难，但很多分析师都认为，象征性的袭击会帮助阿萨德恢复生机，至少暂时会这样。在与西方长达数十年的历次对抗中，叙利亚只需要挺过来，静待尘埃落定，就能取得胜利。
The Assads think that they will prevail this time as they always have.
阿萨德政权认为，就像之前的每一次对抗一样，这次他们也会获胜。
“He is playing again like his father, skirting the edge of the abyss,” Mr. Abdel Nour said. “You might win, but one centimeter difference and you might fall.”
“他在深渊边上行走，这一点也跟他父亲很像，”阿卜杜勒·努尔说。 “你可能会赢，但是只要差之毫厘，就可能跌落深渊。 ”