MOSCOW — A Boeing 737-800 from the United Arab Emirates with 62 people aboard crashed early Saturday while trying to land at the airport in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don, Russian officials said.
莫斯科——俄罗斯官员称，周六凌晨，在俄罗斯南部的顿河畔罗斯托夫市(Rostov-on-Don)，一架从阿拉伯联合酋长国起飞的波音737–800在试图着陆时坠毁，机上载有62人。
All 55 passengers and seven crew members on the flight from Dubai were killed, and a list of victims was published on the website of the Rostov regional government. Vasily Golubev, the governor of the Rostov region, said strong winds appeared to have caused the crash, but an investigation was just beginning. Rostov-on-Don is about 600 miles south of Moscow.
飞机是从迪拜起飞的。机上55名乘客和七名机组成员全部遇难，罗斯托夫州政府的网站上了公布了遇难者名单。罗斯托夫州州长瓦西里·戈卢别夫(Vasily Golubev)称飞机坠毁似乎是由强风造成的，不过调查才刚刚开始。顿河畔罗斯托夫市位于莫斯科以南约600英里（约960公里）。
Both of the plane’s flight data recorders were recovered, the Russian Investigative Committee, a law enforcement agency, said. In a statement on its website, the agency listed “crew error, technical failure, adverse weather conditions and other factors” as possible reasons for the crash.
执法机构俄罗斯调查委员会(Russian Investigative Committee)称，飞机的两个飞行数据记录器都已找到。该委员会在其网站上发表了一份声明，称“机组人员失误、技术故障、不利天气条件及其他因素”都可能是此次坠机事件的原因。
The airliner was operated by the Dubai budget carrier FlyDubai, which confirmed that the plane had crashed on landing and that none of the passengers had survived. Forty-four of the passengers were Russian, eight were Ukrainian, two were Indian and one was a citizen of Uzbekistan, the airline said.
坠毁客机的运营商是迪拜廉价航空公司迪拜航空公司(FlyDubai)。该公司证实，飞机在着陆时坠毁，乘客无一生还。公司称，乘客中有44名俄罗斯人、八名乌克兰人、两名印度人和一名乌兹比克斯坦人。
“We are doing everything that we can to help those who have been affected,” the airline’s chief executive, Ghaith al-Ghaith, said in a video posted on Facebook.
“我们正在尽一切努力，帮助受事件影响的人，”该公司首席执行官盖斯·盖斯(Ghaith al-Ghaith)在发布在Facebook上的一段视频中说。
The crash occurred at 3:42 a.m. as the plane was making its second attempt to land, Russia’s Emergency Situations Ministry said. After missing its first approach, the plane entered a holding pattern for two hours as it waited for the weather to improve.
俄罗斯紧急情况部(Emergency Situations Ministry)称，坠机事件发生在凌晨3点42分，当时飞机正在进行第二次降落尝试。第一次尝试失败后，飞机进入等待航线，等候天气好转。飞机等了两小时。
On the second landing attempt, a wing of the plane struck the ground, and the aircraft began to break apart and burn, the statement said.
声明称，第二次尝试时，飞机的一个机翼触地，之后飞机开始解体燃烧。