BEIRUT, Lebanon — Syrian rebels ejected a Qaeda-linked militant group from its headquarters in the city of Aleppo on Wednesday, according to an opposition group that monitors the war from Britain. The strike was a sharp blow to the group, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, which has been losing ground to rebel forces in the worst round of infighting yet between opponents of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——在英国观察叙利亚内战的一个反对派组织表示，本周三，叙利亚反对派已经把一个与基地组织有关联的武装组织驱逐出了他们在阿勒颇市的大本营。遭到驱逐的组织名为“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度”（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS），对于该组织来说，此次被逐是一次重大的打击。ISIS和反对派武装的斗争是叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的反对者之间迄今为止最惨烈的一轮内斗，ISIS在这场内斗中节节败退。
Deadly battles have raged in recent days across northern Syria between rebel forces and the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, which also wants to depose Mr. Assad’s government but aims to replace it with a monolithic Sunni extremist government that rules both countries.
近些天来，反对派武装和ISIS之间的殊死战斗席卷了叙利亚北部。ISIS也希望罢黜阿萨德政府，但他们的目标是用一个单一的逊尼派(Sunni)极端主义政府来取代阿萨德政府，让这个政府同时统治叙利亚和伊拉克。
Angered by what they call the tendency of ISIS to commandeer resources, impose strict social codes, and kidnap and kill opponents, rebel groups have been attacking its bases and trying to drive out its fighters from towns and villages where they once held sway.
反对派组织声称，ISIS惯于霸占资源，强行实施严酷的社会规范，绑架并杀害反对者。被这种行为激怒的反对派组织一直在攻击ISIS的大本营，试图把他们的战斗人员从曾被他们控制的村镇中驱逐出去。
More than 270 people had been killed in four days of fighting as of Monday, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an opposition group based in Britain with a network of contacts in Syria. The dead include 46 civilians, 129 rebel fighters and 99 ISIS fighters. Both sides have also executed prisoners, said the Syrian Observatory, which also reported the seizure of the ISIS headquarters in Aleppo.
据总部在英国的反对派组织叙利亚人权观察组织(Syrian Observatory for Human Rights)透露，截至周一，已有270多人在持续四天的战斗中丧生，死者包括46名平民、129名反对派战斗人员和99名ISIS战斗人员。叙利亚人权观察组织在叙利亚有一个情报网络。该组织说，双方还处决了犯人。ISIS在阿勒颇的大本营被占领的消息也是该组织公布的。
On Tuesday, the head of another Qaeda-linked group, the Nusra Front, which has been fighting with the rebels against ISIS in many areas, unveiled an initiative to halt the infighting and refocus all groups on their original goal of toppling Mr. Assad’s government.
周二，努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)的首领发布了一则倡议，呼吁停止内斗，把所有反对派组织的力量重新聚集到推翻阿萨德政府的最初目标上。努斯拉阵线也与基地组织有关联，一直在许多地区和反对派并肩打击ISIS。
In an audio recording released online, the head of the Nusra Front, known as Abu Mohammed al-Jolani, said the infighting resulted from the “incorrect policies” of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria. He called for a cease-fire and the establishment of an Islamic court to handle disputes, saying the violence could give Mr. Assad’s forces the opportunity to regain territory. “The whole battlefield, including the foreign and local fighters, will pay the price of losing a great jihad because the regime will rebound when it was so close to vanishing,” he said.
在网上发布的一段录音中，人称阿布·穆罕默德·约拉尼(Abu Mohammed al-Jolani)的努斯拉阵线首领说，是ISIS的“错误政策”引发了内斗。他呼吁双方停火，设立伊斯兰法庭来处理纠纷，他说，暴力会让阿萨德的部队有机会收复失地。他说，“包括外国武装力量和本地武装力量在内的整个战场，会付出输掉一场伟大圣战的代价，因为阿萨德政权会在这个几近灭亡的时刻东山再起。”
While rebel forces have in the past established Islamic courts to administer individual towns and villages, the movement has never had a unified leadership that could impose discipline.
在过去，反对派武装曾设立伊斯兰法庭来管辖个别村镇，然而，反阿萨德运动从来没有一个能强制推行纪律的统一领导层。
The authenticity of the Nusra Front leader’s statement could not be immediately confirmed.
努斯拉阵线首领声明的真实性无法立即得到确证。
The Syrian Observatory has reported that more than 130,000 people have been killed since the conflict began in March 2011. But the United Nations, which has been saying for months that the death toll has exceeded 100,000, announced on Tuesday that it had decided to stop updating its own tally, at least for the foreseeable future, because of problems in verifying information.
叙利亚人权观察组织报称，自2011年3月叙利亚冲突爆发以来，已有超过13万人被杀。不过，几个月以来一直宣称死亡人数已过10万的联合国(United Nations)于周二宣布，由于信息核实存在困难，联合国已决定停止更新自己的统计，至少在短期内不会恢复更新。
“It was always very close to the edge in terms of how much we could guarantee the source material was accurate,” Rupert Colville, a spokesman for the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, told reporters in Geneva. He attributed the decision in part to the extremely limited ability of the United Nations to independently conduct fact-finding in Syria, making it “increasingly difficult for us to source and analyze the casualty figures in order to update them.”
“说到能在多大程度上确保原始资料准确性的问题，我们总是在边缘挣扎，”联合国人权事务高级专员的发言人鲁珀特·科尔维尔(Rupert Colville)在日内瓦告诉记者。他表示，联合国之所以做出这一决定，部分原因是联合国在叙利亚独立调查事实的能力极为有限，导致“我们越来越难以找到、分析并更新伤亡数字”。
Suspension of a United Nations update on casualties “will be a loss — we will now have only disparate sources of information,” said Hamit Dardagan, an author of a report on Syrian casualties by the Oxford Research Group, a London-based organization that put the toll at 113,700 as of November.
联合国停止更新伤亡数字“将是我们的损失，我们现在只能依靠一些零散的信息来源，”哈米德·达尔达甘(Hamit Dardagan)说。他是牛津研究组织(Oxford Research Group)发布的一份叙利亚伤亡报告的作者。总部位于伦敦的该组织认为，叙利亚截至11月的死亡人数是11.37万。
Mr. Dardagan, a founder of Iraq Body Count, a project begun in 2003 to record civilian casualties from the war in Iraq, also said the sectarian nature of the Syrian crisis would further complicate any data collection. “As any conflict intensifies and you have more refugee flows and more people displaced, that becomes more difficult,” he said in an interview.
达尔达甘还是伊拉克人员伤亡统计(Iraq Body Count)的创始人，该项目始于2003年，记录的是伊拉克战争中的平民伤亡情况。达尔达甘表示，叙利亚危机的宗派本质将会使数据搜集工作更加困难。“任何冲突的加剧都会导致更多的难民潮，更多的人流离失所，这样一来，数据搜集工作就会变得更困难，”他在接受采访时说。
The increasing violence has reduced the number of nongovernmental organizations able to work in Syria. Civilian groups that report events considered unfavorable to any of the warring parties have been targeted; most recently, Razan Zeitouneh, an activist who ran the Violations Documentation Center, which compiles data on human rights breaches, was abducted along with her colleagues from their office in a suburb of Damascus, the Syrian capital.
由于日益加剧的暴力，有能力在叙利亚开展工作的非政府组织已经减少。一些民间组织被当成了目标，因为交战中的某一方认为它们报道的事件于己不利。最近的一个案例是，活动人士拉赞·扎伊图娜(Razan Zeitouneh)和同事被人从位于叙利亚首都大马士革郊区的办公室劫走。扎伊图娜是违规文档中心(Violations Documentation Center)的负责人，该组织的工作是汇编侵犯人权行为的相关数据。
Parties on both sides also filter information they provide to the outside world to help their cause, and government restrictions and the threat of kidnapping and death have severely limited access for journalists.
交战双方的各个派别也会对透露给外界的信息进行过滤，以便支持自己的事业。此外，政府限制及遭受绑架和杀害的威胁严重限制了记者获取信息的能力。
United Nations agencies that do have some access have also described problems in verifying data. Officials with the World Food Program and the World Health Organization in Damascus said recently that because their officials could not reach many areas in Syria, they had set up local contacts to relay information to them, but that verification was difficult. Government ministries provide some data, but they are out of touch with branches in some rebel-held areas.
联合国各个机构确实拥有一些渠道，但它们也说到了信息核实方面的种种问题。前不久，世界粮食计划署(World Food Program)和世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)驻大马士革的官员表示，因为叙利亚境内的许多地方都无法到达，他们已经找了一些当地联系人，让这些人把信息转给他们，但这种信息很难核实。叙利亚政府部门会提供一些数据，但它们已经与一些反对派控制地区的分支机构失去了联系。
The United Nations reported some progress on Tuesday in the international effort to purge Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile. In a statement issued jointly with the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the agency responsible for ensuring the arsenal’s destruction, it said the first batch of the most dangerous materials in the stockpile had been loaded onto a Danish commercial vessel in the Syrian port of Latakia and exported from the country.
联合国周二报称，国际社会销毁叙利亚化学武库的努力取得了一些进展。在与禁止化学武器组织(Organization for the Prohibition ofChemical Weapons)联合发布的一份声明中，联合国称，第一批叙利亚化学武库中最危险的原料已在叙利亚港口拉塔基亚装上一艘丹麦商船，并已被运出该国。禁止化学武器组织负责确保叙利亚化武销毁工作的落实。