The wreckage of an Air Algérie jetliner was found late Thursday in a semidesert area in Mali, and there appeared to be no survivors of the crash, the top military official in neighboring Burkina Faso said Thursday night.
布基纳法索军方领导人周四晚间表示，失踪阿尔及利亚航空公司客机的残骸周四晚在马里一片半沙漠化地带被发现，机上可能无人生还。
The plane, an MD-83, took off at 1:17 a.m. Thursday from Ouagadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso, on a flight to Algiers with 110 passengers and a crew of six. Air traffic controllers lost contact with the plane less than an hour later. Fierce thunderstorms were pounding the Sahara region where the plane, Flight 5017, would have flown, and the storms probably played a role in bringing the plane down, according to the official, Gen. Gilbert Diendéré, chief of the general staff.
这架麦道83客机周四凌晨1:17从布基纳法索首都瓦加杜古起飞起飞，飞往阿尔及尔。机上有110名乘客，六名机组成员。不到一小时后，空管人员与客机失去了联系。布基纳法索政府失联客机危机应对小组协调员吉尔贝·迪安德雷(Gilbert Diendéré)将军说，这架阿航5017次航班客机预定经过的撒哈拉地区雷电交加，可能是飞机坠毁的原因。
General Diendéré said his men found the plane’s wreckage in an isolated area about 60 miles south of the town of Gao in Mali as night was falling on Thursday. “We saw no survivors,” he said in a telephone interview from Ouagadougou. He said the troops had had to halt their examination for the night.
迪安德雷将军说，他的部下在马里的加奥以南60英里一片与外界隔绝的地区找到了残骸。他在电话采访中说：“我们没有发现幸存者。”他说，由于夜幕降临，军队暂停了勘察工作。
DAKAR, Senegal — An Air Algérie jetliner with 116 people on board crashed early Thursday in a remote area of Mali near the borders with Burkina Faso and Niger, officials said.
塞内加尔达喀尔——据一些官员表示，周二早上，阿尔及利亚航空公司(Air Algérie)的一架班机在马里偏远地带坠毁，事发地临近马里与布基纳法索和尼日尔交界处，机上共载有116人。
The general said the crash “must have been because of the weather — there were a lot of storms, and there was lightning.”
迪安德雷将军说，坠机“一定是天气原因造成的——当时风暴很强，还有闪电。”
Col. Gilles Jaron, a spokesman for the French Army, which dispatched warplanes from a base in West Africa to search for the plane, said late Thursday that he could not confirm that any wreckage had been located. “We are continuing the search,” he said.
法国陆军发言人吉勒斯·雅龙(Gilles Jaron)上校周四晚间表示，他依然无法确认残骸的位置已经确定。法国陆军西非的一座基地派出了军用飞机搜索失联客机。他说，“我们仍在继续搜索。”
The crash comes at a time when the aviation industry is already reeling from the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over eastern Ukraine last Thursday, the crash of TransAsia Airways Flight 222 in Taiwan on Wednesday and the suspension of flights to and from Tel Aviv this week because of rocket fire from Gaza. The Federal Aviation Administration lifted its ban on American flights to Israel overnight.
此次坠机发生时，全球航空业已经因为最近的一连串事件而饱受打击，上周四马来西亚航空公司的MH17航班，在飞经乌克兰东部上空时坠机；本周三在台湾复兴航空公司GE222航班发生事故；本周在特拉维夫起降的航班，也曾因来自加沙地带的火箭弹而暂停飞行。美国联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)很快解除了对美国飞往以色列的航班的禁令。
The Air Algérie plane’s usual route northward would have taken it over large desert areas where Islamic militant groups have been active, including northern Mali, which was overrun by Al Qaeda’s North African affiliate in 2012. When French and African troops drove the militants back out of towns there last year, the militants left behind stacks of manuals explaining in detail how to use SA-7a and SA-7b shoulder-fired antiaircraft missiles, which can shoot down an airliner flying low for takeoff or landing. But those militants are not known to possess heavier weapons that could strike an aircraft at cruising altitude.
按照阿尔及利亚航空公司惯常的北飞航线，飞机会飞经大片沙漠地带，包括马里北部在内。这片地区的伊斯兰武装组织一直相当活跃，2012年，这里曾被基地组织(Al Qaeda)在北非的分支力量占据。去年，法国和非洲联军击退了武装分子，把他们赶出了城镇，当时武装分子留下了一摞摞的手册，里面详细解释了如何使用SA–7a和SA–7b肩射式防空导弹，这种导弹能击落因起飞和降落在低空飞行的飞机。但外界并不了解，这些武装分子是否拥有能击中在巡航高度飞行的飞机的重型武器。
During the day on Thursday, many officials were at pains to say only that the plane was missing, though the operating assumption all day was that it had crashed.
周四白天，很多官员只肯极力表示飞机处于失联状态，不过人们全天都在猜测，飞机已经坠毁。
Nearly half the passengers on the plane were from France, which once ruled the region as a colonial power and which still has extensive political and economic interests and a military presence in West Africa. President François Hollande canceled a trip to the French island territories of Reunion, Comoros and Mayotte and called his cabinet together in Paris for an emergency meeting Thursday afternoon, saying that France would mobilize “all its resources,” civilian and military, to find the missing jet.
飞机上几乎一半的乘客来自法国，该地区曾是法国的殖民地，法国目前在非洲西部仍有广泛的政治及经济利益，并派驻军队。法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)取消了前往法属岛屿留尼汪岛、科摩罗岛和马约特岛的行程，并于周四下午在巴黎召集内阁举行紧急会议，称法国会调动“所有资源”，包括民用和军用资源，寻找到失联飞机。
“We still don’t know what happened,” he said. “What we know is that the crew signaled at 1:48 a.m. that it was changing direction because of a particularly difficult weather situation.”
“我们还不了解发生了什么，”他说。“我们所知道的就是机组人员在凌晨1点48份发出信号，表示由于天气情况极其糟糕，飞机正在改变方向。”
The Burkina Faso government said that the aircraft’s last contact with ground control came a few minutes after it had passed northward out of the country’s air space. It said the crew contacted air traffic controllers in Niamey, Niger, at 1:47 a.m. local time, and informed them that the plane had encountered rough weather.
但布基纳法索政府表示，飞机最后一次与地面控制取得联系是在飞机向北飞出该国领空几分钟后。该国政府称，机组人员于当地时间凌晨1点47分在尼日尔尼亚美与空管取得联系，并通报飞机遇到了恶劣天气。
Residents of northern Mali reported a heavy sandstorm overnight. “There was a lot of damage from the wind, especially in the region of Kidal,” said Kata Data Alhousseini Maiga, an official with the United Nations mission in Gao, Mali. “The sand was so thick that you couldn’t see.”
马里北部居民表示，强沙尘暴持续了一晚上。“大风造成了重大损害，特别是基达尔地区，”联合国驻马里加奥代表团官员卡塔·达塔·侯塞尼·马伊加(Kata Data Alhousseini Maiga)说。“沙层非常厚，根本看不见东西。”
Moumouni Barro, Burkina Faso’s director of airports, said in a telephone interview from Ouagadougou that a resident of Gossi, a village in Mali between Mopti and Gao, near the border with Burkina Faso, “saw the plane fall from the sky” southeast of the town during a storm around 1:50 a.m.
布基纳法索机场负责人穆穆尼·巴罗(Moumouni Barro)在瓦加杜古接受电话采访时表示，马里小镇格西(Gossi)的一名居民“看到飞机从天上掉下来”，飞机于凌晨1点50分左右在风暴中坠落，坠落地点位于格西的东南方向。格西处于莫普提和加奥之间。