WASHINGTON — Not long ago, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria seemed a remote and embattled figure, with the United States threatening airstrikes and other Arab leaders denouncing him for having used chemical weapons against his own people.
华盛顿——不久前，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)还似乎是一个遥远且深陷困境的人物，因为美国威胁要进行空袭，而其他阿拉伯国家领导人谴责他对自己的人民使用化学武器。
Yet in recent days, he appears, paradoxically, to have turned the crisis to his advantage, making clear to a global television audience that he aims to use President Obama’s own “red line” against him.
但不可思议的是，近日阿萨德貌似已使危机变得对自己有利。他向全球电视观众明确表示，他打算利用奥巴马总统的“红线”来使奥巴马陷于被动。
In exchange for relinquishing his chemical arsenal, Mr. Assad said Thursday, he will require that the United States stop arming the Syrian opposition — a demand that might seem wishful from the leader of a devastated country where civil war has left 100,000 dead, two million living as refugees and large swaths of territory beyond his control.
阿萨德在周四表示，他将要求美国停止为叙利亚反对派提供武器，以此作为放弃化学武器的交换条件。这个要求似乎是他的一厢情愿——他是一个满目疮痍的国家的领导人，这个国家的内战已导致10万人死亡，200万人成为难民，大片国土已经不在他掌控之下。
Mr. Assad outlined his demands on Thursday, telling a Russian TV interviewer that the arms-control proposal floated by his patron in Moscow would not be finalized until “we see the United States really wants stability in our region and stops threatening, striving to attack and also ceases arms deliveries to terrorists.”
阿萨德是在周四提出自己的种种要求的。他告诉俄罗斯电视台的采访者，在“我们看到美国真的希望我们这个地区保持稳定，停止威胁及准备攻击的举措，并停止向恐怖分子提供武器”之前，他的俄罗斯后台所提出的化武控制提议就不会最终敲定。
Secretary of State John Kerry delivered a blunt response to Mr. Assad’s comments after meeting Thursday with Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, saying the standard procedures for identifying and securing the weapons were too slow in Syria’s case. “There is nothing standard about this process,” Mr. Kerry said. “The words of the Syrian regime, in our judgment, are simply not enough.”
周四，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在与俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)会晤后，对阿萨德的言论做出了不客气的回应，表示就叙利亚而言，识别和控制武器的标准程序太慢。“这个过程没有标准可言，”克里说。“根据我们的判断，叙利亚政权的表态是根本不够的。”
Mr. Assad, sounding relaxed and confident, hinted in his interview that the Russian proposal — which requires Syria to sign the Chemical Weapons Convention — could become a lever for endless negotiations and delays, much as Saddam Hussein delayed arms control inspectors during the 1990s. “It doesn’t mean that Syria will sign the documents, fulfill the obligations, and that’s it,” Mr. Assad said.
阿萨德听上去轻松而自信。他在采访中暗示，俄罗斯的提议——要求叙利亚签署《禁止化学武器公约》(Chemical Weapons Convention)——可能会成为一个手段，带来无休止的谈判及拖延，就像萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)在20世纪90年代期间对武器控制检查员使用的拖延策略一样。“这并不意味着叙利亚将签署文件，履行义务，就这么简单，”阿萨德表示。
The state-owned Syrian newspaper Al Watan put it bluntly in a headline on Thursday: “Moscow and Damascus pull the rug out from under the feet of Obama.”
周四，叙利亚官方报纸《国家报》(Al Watan)在标题中生硬地表明这一点：“莫斯科和大马士革使奥巴马乱了方寸”。
Mr. Assad’s comments on Thursday were the latest chapter in a rhetorical offensive by the Syrian president and his surrogates, who seem to feel that global perceptions of the Syrian opposition — with its strong component of Islamic radicalism — have shifted in their direction. Mr. Assad has granted interviews to American and French reporters in recent weeks, and has brought back the media adviser who had largely disappeared from public view for the past two years, a Western-educated interpreter and author named Bouthaina Shaaban.
阿萨德周四发表的言论，是叙利亚总统及其代理人发起的宣传攻势的最新一章。他们似乎觉得，全球对叙利亚反对派——具有强大的伊斯兰激进主义势力——的看法已经发生有利于他们的转变。阿萨德于最近几周接受了美国及法国记者的采访，还请回了媒体顾问布特娜·沙班(Bouthaina Shaaban)。过去两年里，这名在西方接受教育的口译员和作者基本从公众视野中消失。
Ms. Shaaban is a skilled interlocutor who helped Mr. Assad shape his image in the West as a reform-minded leader during the years before the uprising in 2011. Her re-emergence has “signaled a coherent determination to launch a media blitz,” said Jon Snow, a veteran anchor for Britain’s Channel 4 news.
沙班能言善辩，在2011年大规模抗议爆发前的几年里，她曾帮助阿萨德在西方国家塑造具有改革意识的领导人形象。英国第四频道电视台(Channel 4)的资深新闻主播约翰·斯诺(Jon Snow)表示，沙班复出“表明了一种发起媒体攻势的协调一致的决心”。
In recent weeks, thousands of Syrians have recorded personal appeals to members of Congress and the American public urging them to oppose an airstrike, though it is not clear whether those efforts are coordinated with their government.
最近几周，数以千计的叙利亚人以个人身份向美国国会议员和美国公众发出呼吁，敦促他们反对空袭计划，尽管尚不清楚这些努力是否得到叙利亚政府的统筹。
For the rebels, who could often use a tip or two in the area of public relations, all of this is unqualified bad news. “It is disappointing,” said Najib Ghadbian, the main Syrian opposition group’s special representative to the United States. “If the regime wants to play with this, it could take months or years. This is why we need accountability.”
对于叙利亚反对派（他们在公共关系方面往往表现出缺乏技巧）来说，这一切是不折不扣的坏消息。“令人失望，”叙利亚主要反对派组织驻美国的特别代表纳吉布·加必安(Najib Ghadbian)说。“如果叙利亚政权想要在这件事上耍花招，那就可能拖上几个月或几年的时间。这就是为什么我们需要责任追究制度。”
A rebel brigade commander named Moaz al-Yousef, reached by telephone, spoke bitterly of Mr. Obama’s interest in the Russian proposal — and the delay of the Congressional votes — as a betrayal.
名为莫札·优素福(Moaz al-Yousef)的反对派武装指挥官在接受电话采访时，谴责奥巴马有意接受俄罗斯的提议，并要求国会推迟投票，称这是一种背叛。
“We had hopes, it was a dream, and now it’s gone and we feel disappointed,” he said. “We should completely cut off our relationship with him — Obama has completely lost his credibility.”
“我们有过希望，有过梦想，现在一切都落空了，我们感到很失望，”他说。“我们应该彻底断绝与奥巴马的关系，奥巴马已经完全丧失了可信度。”
In his interview with Russian television, Mr. Assad hinted at another possible stumbling block in the prospective chemical weapons agreement by saying Israel should ratify it first. Israel has signed the accord but not ratified it, and is extremely unlikely to do so in light of the difficulty of verifying Syrian compliance in the midst of a civil war.
阿萨德在接受俄罗斯电视台采访时暗示，有望达成的化学武器协议还有另一个潜在的绊脚石。他表示，以色列应该首先批准该公约。以色列签署了这项公约，但至今没有正式批准；鉴于很难在内战中证实叙利亚遵守承诺，以色列现在极不可能批准该公约。
For Mr. Assad, the Russian proposal comes as a welcome reprieve. Even before the chemical weapons attack on Aug. 21, his military was effectively locked in a stalemate with the opposition, despite the intervention of militia fighters from Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite movement, in recent months. Although Mr. Assad won a few important victories, he has still not pushed the rebels from the Damascus suburbs. That, many analysts say, was the goal of the chemical weapons attack, in a rebel-held part of the eastern suburb of Ghouta.
对于阿萨德来说，俄罗斯的提议带来一个受欢迎的喘息余地。即使在8月21日发动化学武器攻击之前，他手下的军队实际上与反对派在战场上僵持不下，尽管黎巴嫩什叶派运动组织真主党(Hezbollah)最近几个月派民兵组织进行干预。虽然阿萨德赢得了一些重要胜利，但他仍未能将反对派逐出大马士革郊区——很多分析人士表示，向反对派掌控的东部郊区高塔发动化学武器攻击，正是为了达到这个目的。
After the attack, Mr. Assad was clearly bracing for an American strike, with the military moving key units and the capital largely emptied out. But the Congressional debate over military intervention suggested — to the Syrians — a lack of American resolve, and the Russian proposal bolstered Mr. Assad’s confidence, even at the cost of admitting for the first time the existence of Syria’s chemical weapons program.
发动攻击后，阿萨达显然准备迎接美国的打击，军方转移了重点部队，首都基本被撤空。但美国国会围绕军事干预的辩论似乎向叙利亚人表明，美国缺乏决心，而俄罗斯的提议更增强了阿萨德的信心，即使他为此付出了代价，首次承认叙利亚化学武器计划的存在。
“Assad appears to have the impression that the Americans may want him to go, but not now,” said Andrew J. Tabler, a Syria analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “So you can now expect him to go on the offensive.”
“阿萨德似乎觉得，美国人也许希望他下台，但不是现在，”华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)叙利亚问题专家安德鲁·J·泰布勒(Andrew J. Tabler)说。“因此，你现在能够预料阿萨德会发起攻势。”