HONG KONG — The Chinese Internet company Alibaba has ended talks with the Hong Kong stock exchange over an initial public offering and is now moving forward with plans to list in New York, a person close to the Chinese company said on Wednesday.
香港——一名与阿里巴巴关系密切的人士周三说，这家中国互联网公司已就首次公开募股与港交所完成谈判，正在推进在纽约上市计划。
Alibaba’s “dialog with Hong Kong” has “come to the end,” said the person close to the company, declining to be named because the information is not public. The company is “now turning to the U.S. to start the listing process,” the person said.
前述与该公司关系密切的人士说，阿里巴巴“与香港的对话”已经“结束”。因这一信息还未公开，他要求不具名。他还说，这家公司“现在已经转向美国，以便启动上市程序”。
In its discussions over a potential listing — which, at as much as $15 billion, would be a huge win for any stock exchange — Alibaba had proposed to officials in Hong Kong that the company’s 28-member partner committee be allowed to continue to nominate a majority of its board of directors.
就潜在上市展开讨论之时，阿里巴巴向香港官员提请，允许公司的28人合伙人董事会继续提名大部分的董事会成员。这次上市交易价值150亿美元（约合918亿元人民币），对任何一个交易所来说都意味着巨大的利益。
Hong Kong discourages dual-class shareholding or other structures that organize control over companies in a way that is disproportionate to individual shareholdings.
香港不鼓励双层持股及其他一些股权结构，只要这些结构形成的控股权大到了与个人持股不成比例的地步。
Hong Kong appears to have declined to make an exception in Alibaba’s case. A spokesman for the Hong Kong exchange declined to comment on Wednesday, citing company policy.
香港似乎不愿意对阿里巴巴例外。周三，港交所一名发言人周三以公司政策为由拒绝置评。
Dual-class and related share structures are permitted in the United States. Google, Facebook and the New York Times Company have dual-class listings, which give founders or family owners greater say over how a company is run.
美国允许双层持股以及相关持股结构。谷歌(Google)、Facebook和纽约时报公司(New York Times Company)都是以双层持股结构上市，这种结构让创始人或是家族拥有者在公司如何运营方面有更大的发言权。
Still, Alibaba does not intend to seek a dual-class listing. The company is “not going to come to the U.S. with dual-class” but is “going to come looking for a way” to use its existing partnership model, the person close to the company said.
不过，阿里巴巴无意以双层持股结构上市。前述与该公司关系密切的人士说，该公司“不会在美国以双层持股结构上市”，但却“正在寻找一个办法”以利用现有的合伙人模式。
Alibaba was founded in 1999 and its partner committee structure was introduced in 2010. Its 28 members include Jack Ma, the executive chairman, as well as Mr. Ma’s co-founders, top lieutenants and other long-serving senior staff members.
阿里巴巴创立于1999年，并在2010年引入合伙人董事会模式。28名成员中包括总裁马云、其合伙创始人、高级助手以及其他一些工作已久的高级员工。
The partners own about 10 percent of the company, and the committee does not include SoftBank, the Japanese telecommunications company that owns 36.7 percent of Alibaba, or Yahoo, which has a 24 percent stake.
这些合伙人持有公司约10%的股份，合伙人董事会成员不包括软银(SoftBank)，这家日本电信公司持有阿里巴巴36.7%的股份，也不包括持有阿里巴巴24%股份的雅虎(Yahoo)公司。
“What sets our partnership apart from the others is that this is not a mere profit sharing mechanism, nor is it a vehicle of power to exert greater control over the company: rather, it is a system that provides a driving force within the company,” Mr. Ma wrote this month in a letter to Alibaba employees. “Partners, as operators of the company, builder of business, carriers of corporate culture, as well as shareholders, are the most likely to adhere to the company’s mission and insist on long-term interests to create long-term value for customers, employees and shareholders.”
马云在本月致阿里巴巴员工的信里说，“合伙人制度不是要建立一个利益集团，更不是为了更好控制公司的权力机构，而是企业内在动力机制。合伙人作为公司的运营者、业务的建设者、文化的传承者，同时又是股东，最有可能坚持公司的使命和长期利益，为客户、员工和股东创造长期价值。”
Analysts and investors expect Alibaba’s listing — if, when and where it happens — to be one of the biggest and most highly anticipated since Facebook raised $16 billion in May 2012.
分析人士及投资者预计，不论何时何地，阿里巴巴一旦上市，就会成为继Facebook在2012年5月募得160亿美元资金以来最大的一次，也是最受人期待的一次上市。
Alibaba operates online businesses including the merchandise sourcing Web site Alibaba.com; Tmall.com, a platform for retailers to connect with online shoppers; and the consumer-to-consumer retail Web site Taobao Marketplace.
阿里巴巴经营的电子商务包括商品供应网站alibaba.com、将零售商与网购者联系起来的平台天猫网站、以及消费者对消费者的零售网站淘宝网。
Alibaba’s profit tripled in the first quarter of the year, rising to $668.7 million from $220.5 million in the same period a year earlier, according to Yahoo’s stock exchange filings.
根据雅虎公司的证券交易备案材料，今年第一季度，阿里巴巴的利润翻了两倍，从去年同期的2.205亿美元增加到6.687亿美元。