HONG KONG —Despite a slowdown in China, Alibaba, the Internet giant, experienced a surge in revenue in the latest quarter, driven by strong growth in mobile.
香港——即使面对放缓的中国经济，受益于移动端营收的激增，互联网巨头阿里巴巴上个季度的业绩仍然增长强劲。
Given Alibaba’s dominance in online shopping, investors have been concerned that the trouble in the country’s economy could spill over into the company’s performance.
考虑到阿里巴巴在网购行业的主导地位，投资者一度担忧中国经济面临的困境会影响该公司的业绩。
After its much-hyped initial public offering last year, Alibaba reported lackluster earnings in the first half of 2015. Its stock price even briefly dropped below its listing price.
在去年风光无限的公开上市后，阿里巴巴2015年上半年的业绩报告显得黯淡无光。股价甚至一度跌破发行价。
Now Alibaba is showing signs of stabilizing.
现在，阿里巴巴显现出恢复稳定的迹象。
In its results on Tuesday, Alibaba reported that sales rose 32 percent in the latest quarter to 22.2 billion renminbi, or $3.5 billion. Earnings per share increased 30 percent. After Alibaba reported results on Tuesday, the company’s stock jumped 5 percent in morning trading.
根据周二公布的最新季报，阿里巴巴宣布上季度营收达到222亿元人民币，同比增长32%，每股收益增长了30%。于周二公布该季营收后，阿里巴巴的股价在上午的交易中大涨5%。
Still, analysts continue to worry about how a general slowdown in China could rattle Alibaba. Slower growth is expected to hit the wallets of the Chinese middle class, who regularly splurge on the company’s online shopping platforms. At around $79, Alibaba’s shares are still a long way from the $119 high-water mark they hit after the I.P.O.
然而，分析师依然担心中国经济的全面减缓会对阿里巴巴造成冲击。经济增速减缓将令中国中产阶级的钱包缩水，而中产阶级正是经常在阿里巴巴网购平台消费的主力军。阿里巴巴目前股价约为每股79美元，相较公开发行后曾高达每股119美元的历史价位，还有很长的一段距离。
“Economic challenges most likely weighed on average spending by buyers,” the research group Trefis wrote in a report.
“经济不景气通常反映在消费者的平均开支上。”美国投资研究机构Trefis在其报告中写道。
Speaking to concerns about the Chinese economy, Joe Tsai, the company’s executive vice chairman, said in a conference call on Tuesday that the company did not believe that a blip in Chinese growth would have a long-term impact on the consumer spending on Alibaba’s sites.
谈到对中国经济的担忧，阿里巴巴执行副主席蔡崇信(Joe Tsai)在周二的电话会议上表示，阿里巴巴不认为中国经济的短暂变化会对消费者的网购消费造成长期影响。
“When you look at the Chinese consumer, they’re very liquid. They have lots of cash deposits in their account,” he said, adding “a temporary setback in the macro economy is not going to affect their consumption pattern in a fundamental way.”
“中国消费者的现金流动性非常好，账户的现金存款相当多。”他补充谈道，“宏观经济暂时放缓不会从根本上带来消费模式的变化。”
In particular, Mr. Tsai noted that Chinese consumption as a percentage of the country’s output is still well below that of developed countries. He expected consumption to naturally become a larger part of China’s economic growth. It is a shift that officials in Beijing are similarly pushing.
值得关注的是，蔡崇信提到消费在中国经济中的占比还远远小于发达国家。他预计消费会自然而然地成为中国经济增长的更大组成部分。这与中国政府力推的经济转型不谋而合。
Like many Internet players, Alibaba is looking to mobile as it charts out opportunities.
与许多互联网公司一样，阿里巴巴致力发展移动端业务，以寻求更多机会。
The company’s revenue from mobile advertising, traditionally less than is made on online desktop ads, almost tripled from a year earlier, to $1.7 billion. Alibaba said on Tuesday that mobile phones also account for about 62 percent of the total transactions on its e-commerce sites.
阿里巴巴的移动端广告收益，原本低于PC端广告，如今增长迅猛，达到17亿美元，几乎是去年的三倍。在周二，阿里巴巴宣布移动端贡献了其电商平台约62%的总交易额。
In the conference call, Alibaba executives emphasized new revenue streams that could eventually contribute to the company, including takeout and grocery delivery, a cloud computing unit that serves small businesses, and outreach to rural users.
在电话会议上，阿里巴巴的高管强调新增的收入来源最终会为公司做出贡献，这包括餐饮外卖和食品杂货递送、针对小企业的云计算业务，以及针对农村地区用户的拓展。
“Today if you look at the landscape in China, online shopping only accounts for 10 percent of total retail in China,” said Alibaba’s new chief executive, Daniel Zhang. “So I would say that is a huge potential, and if we look at people’s geographic spread, half of our population in the low-tier cities and rural areas, that’s why we initiate our rural program.”
“时至今日，从总体情况来看，网购只占中国零售业总额的10%。”阿里巴巴新上任的首席执行官张勇(Daniel Zhang)表示，“因此，我认为潜力依然巨大。从地域分布上来看，中国有一半人口生活在中小城市和农村偏远地区，这就是我们启动农村淘宝项目的原因。”
Alibaba’s investment strategy is expected to follow this pattern. This month, Alibaba continued its acquisition streak by making an offer to buy the remainder of a Chinese online video site, Youku Tudou.
阿里巴巴的投资战略将贯彻这一目标。本月，阿里巴巴继续其收购步伐，宣布对在线视频网站优酷和土豆网剩余的股份进行全面收购。
“Consumption isn’t just about online shopping, but consumption of digital goods; it’s about consumption of services. We are looking at things that will enhance our position in the consumption economy,” Mr. Tsai said.
“消费不仅限于网购商品，也是对数字产品的消费，是对服务业的消费。我们重视能提高我们在消费经济中地位的业务。”蔡崇信表示。