HONG KONG — ‘‘Hey, brother, have you invested in Zhang Ziyi?’’
香港——“哥们儿，你投章子怡了吗？”
So begins a cartoon advertisement referring to Ms. Zhang, an actress, for the latest retail investment product from the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba.
这是个卡通广告的开头部分，里面说的章子怡是一名女演员。广告宣传的是中国电商巨头阿里巴巴的最新零售投资产品。
On Wednesday, Alibaba used Sina Weibo, a microblogging service in China, to announce its most recent push into innovative finance: a form of crowdfunding for Chinese movies. Investors were offered an expected annual interest rate of 7 percent for putting up as little as 100 renminbi, or $16.
周三，阿里巴巴在新浪微博上宣布了自己进军创新金融领域的最新举措：通过“众筹”来为中国电影集资。最少只需要投入100元人民币（约合16美元），投资者就可以享受到7%的预期年化收益率。
Alibaba has said it is moving forward with plans for an initial public offering in the United States, which analysts have said could raise more than the $16 billion that Facebook achieved two years ago.
阿里巴巴表示，公司正在推进在美国进行首次公开募股的计划；分析人士称，此次交易筹得的资金可能会超过两年前Facebook筹得的160亿美元。
The new investment product, called Yu Le Bao, or Entertainment Treasure, is positioned as a way for ordinary Chinese to play a mini-role as a film producer. Alibaba said investors would get the chance to weigh in on what films should be made and who should direct and star in them.
前述新投资产品名为娱乐宝。通过该产品，中国老百姓也能充当小的电影制片人。阿里巴巴说，投资者将有机会参与决定拍摄哪部电影、由谁执导及由谁主演。
Alibaba said an initial batch of four projects – three films and one social networking game – together were targeted for total funding of 73 million renminbi. They include a fourth installment in the ‘‘Tiny Times’’ series of films, as well as a screen adaptation of the popular 2004 novel ‘‘Wolf Totem.’’
阿里巴巴称，首期的四个项目——三部电影和一款社交网络游戏——共计划筹资7300万元人民币。其中包括《小时代》系列电影的第四部，以及一部根据2004年流行小说《狼图腾》改编的电影。
Yu Le Bao is the latest example of how Alibaba’s novel online investment offerings are encroaching on the staid state-owned banking system. By offering returns of as much as 7 percent, about twice the maximum interest rate that traditional banks are allowed to pay on a benchmark savings deposit, Alibaba is steadily amassing a share of China’s trillions of dollars in household savings.
娱乐宝是一个最新的例证，表明阿里巴巴推出的新颖网络投资方式对中国墨守陈规的国有银行体系形成了侵蚀。通过提供高达7%的收益率——大概是传统银行获准为基准储蓄存款提供的最高利率的两倍——阿里巴巴逐步吸纳资金，从中国高达数万亿美元的居民储蓄当中分了一杯羹。
Last June, the company introduced a money market product called Yu’e Bao, which translates as Leftover Treasure. As of last month, 81 million people had signed up for the product, which had $40 billion in assets under management.
去年6月，阿里巴巴推出了一款名为余额宝的货币市场产品。截至上个月，该产品的登记用户已达到8100万人，管理的资产总额则达到了400亿美元。
That kind of success has led to greater scrutiny from China’s financial regulators. Reports in the state-run news media this month said the central bank, the People’s Bank of China, was considering limits on the payments handled by Internet companies like Alibaba and its biggest rival, Tencent, but officials have yet to implement such restrictions.
这样的成功促使中国金融管理机构加强了监管。本月，据国有新闻媒体报道，中国央行中国人民银行正在考虑对阿里巴巴及其最大的对手腾讯所提供的支付业务进行限制。不过，官方尚未实施此类限制。
At the same time, Alibaba’s push into online finance has stoked a backlash from the state-dominated banking sector. On Tuesday, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the nation’s biggest bank, started restricting its business with Alibaba’s online payment unit to a single branch. In recent weeks, several of China’s big state banks have begun capping the amount of funds their customers can transfer into Internet finance products like those marketed by Alibaba.
与此同时，阿里巴巴进军在线金融的举动遭到了由国家主导的银行业的抵制。周二，中国最大的银行中国工商银行开始将自己与阿里巴巴在线支付平台之间的业务限制在一家分行的范围之内。最近几周，中国最大的几家国有银行纷纷开始设置最高额度，限制其客户向阿里巴巴等公司推出的互联网金融产品转入资金。
By setting its sights on China’s movie industry, Alibaba is targeting the world’s fastest-growing major cinema market. Box office sales in China grew 27 percent last year, to $3.6 billion, second only to the United States, according to figures released on Tuesday by the Motion Picture Association of America.
通过着眼于中国电影业，阿里巴巴正在锁定全球增长最快的一个主要电影市场。美国电影协会(Motion Picture Association of America)周二公布的数据显示，中国的票房收入去年增长了27%，达到36亿美元，仅次于美国。
But investments in Yu Le Bao would not go directly to financing movies. According to an email statement from Alibaba, ‘‘in the initial phase,’’ the funds would be channeled into insurance and so-called wealth management products that were being offered by Guohua Life, an insurance company based in Shanghai. They would later be invested in the cultural industry, the statement said.
不过，投进娱乐宝的钱并不会直接成为拍摄电影的资金。阿里巴巴在通过电子邮件发出的一份声明中称，“在初始阶段”，娱乐宝筹得的资金会被投入总部位于上海的保险公司国华人寿旗下的保险和所谓的理财产品。声明称，再往后，这些钱会被投进电影这个文化产业。
Alibaba began taking reservations for investments in Yu Le Bao on Wednesday on its Taobao Marketplace smartphone app, and said that it planned to begin formal sales of the product on Monday.
周三，阿里巴巴开始在自己的淘宝网智能手机应用上接受娱乐宝投资预约，并且表示，计划从下周一开始正式发售该产品。
In another Weibo posting, Alibaba was careful to draw a distinction between the new investment product and traditional crowdfunding, where people who contribute money to a project usually receive goods or services in return. Depending on how it is structured, traditional crowdfunding would risk being seen by the Chinese authorities as illegal fund-raising, an offense that is not precisely defined but has been used to condemn underground lending syndicates and pyramid schemes.
在另一篇微博帖子中，阿里巴巴小心地说明了这款新投资产品和传统众筹之间的区别。在传统的众筹模式下，将钱投进某个项目的人得到的回报通常是产品或服务。传统的众筹可能会被中国当局定性为非法集资，具体则视其架构而定。非法集资这个罪名没有明确的定义，但已被用来制裁地下放贷联合企业和传销组织。
“Crowdfunding projects can’t offer returns on equity or investment, and the people behind those projects can’t promise supporters any kind of profits,” Alibaba said in the posting. “This is innately different from Yu Le Bao’s platform, which offers anticipated capital gains on insurance and wealth management products.”
“众筹项目不能以股权或投资作为回报，项目发起人更不能向支持者许诺任何资金上的收益，”阿里巴巴在前述帖子中说，“这与娱乐宝平台上能提供预期资金收益的保险理财产品，有着本质区别。”