No business represents the rapid rise of the Internet in China quite like Alibaba, a company that is part eBay, part Google and part PayPal.
没有公司能像阿里巴巴一样体现互联网在中国的快速崛起，这家公司同时涉足与eBay、谷歌(Google)、贝宝(PayPal)类似的业务。
Alibaba is now moving forward with plans for one of the biggest initial public offerings since Facebook’s rocky debut last year — but in New York and not in its home market.
阿里巴巴正在推进自Facebook去年那次艰难的首次公开募股以来规模最大的一次首次公开募股计划，发行地点却是在纽约，而不是国内市场。
Much is at stake for the Chinese company, as well as its prospective advisers and potential investors. The offering could value Alibaba at more than $75 billion, slightly bigger than eBay and more than twice as large as Yahoo. It is expected to be several orders of magnitude larger than Twitter’s forthcoming public offering, already one of Wall Street’s most anticipated deals.
对于这家中国公司及其潜在的顾问和投资者来说，这是一个事关重大的举动。这次上市可能会将阿里巴巴的估值定在750亿美元（4589亿元人民币）以上，略高于eBay，是雅虎(Yahoo)的两倍多。阿里巴巴的发行计划预计会比即将进行公开发行的Twitter多几个数量级，而Twitter的发行计划已经是华尔街最受期待的交易之一。
Still, Alibaba’s debut will land far away from Hong Kong, where the company had long sought to make its stock listing home. The Internet giant and its executive chairman, Jack Ma, have sought to keep control of the company firmly with its founders, following in the footsteps of Facebook and Google.
然而，阿里巴巴的首次发行将在远离香港的地方进行，该公司长期以来一直尝试在香港上市。网络巨头、公司执行董事马云曾试图追随Facebook和谷歌的步伐，将公司的控制权稳稳地留在创始人手中。
But the rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange prohibit dual classes of stock and other types of corporate structures that let minority shareholders preserve control of companies. Talks between the two sides over a potential compromise came to a halt on Wednesday, according to a person briefed on the matter.
但是，香港交易所(Hong Kong Stock Exchange)不允许双重股权以及其他由少数股东保留公司控制权的股权结构。据知情人士透露，周三，双方为达成妥协而进行的谈判陷入停顿。
Now come the next steps toward a filing, which may arrive within months. Alibaba has not yet hired underwriters for the stock sale, though for months Wall Street firms have competed fiercely for a plum role. Banks have brought in their most senior deal makers to help make their case: Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, attended a dinner held for Mr. Ma in Hong Kong this year, for instance.
现在来看阿里巴巴申请上市的后续步骤，该公司可能会在几个月内开始申报。阿里巴巴还没选定股票销售的承销商，尽管数月来，华尔街的公司已经为获得一个满意的角色而展开了激烈竞争。银行搬出了最资深的交易商来争取机会，比如，摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)首席执行官杰米·戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)今年在香港参加了为马云举行的晚宴。
Still others have pointed to their longstanding ties to Alibaba. Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley, for example, helped the company raise $4 billion in financing last summer.
其他一些公司则抬出了自己与阿里巴巴的长期关系。比如，瑞信(Credit Suisse)和摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)曾在去年夏天帮助阿里巴巴融资40亿美元。
While companies planning mammoth public offerings can command low underwriting rates — Facebook paid its banks just 1.1 percent of the total proceeds from its stock sale — an Alibaba offering would most likely provide millions of dollars in fees. The Chinese company is expected to raise perhaps $15 billion in its offering.
虽然策划大规模公开发行计划的公司只能获得较低的承销费率——Facebook为承销银行支付的费用仅占股票销售总额的1.1%，阿里巴巴的发行计划仍会带来很可能高达数百万美元的承销费用。据估计，这家中国公司可能会通过发行计划募得150亿美元。
The frenzy over Alibaba highlights continued excitement over the Chinese Internet space. Much of the landscape remains up for grabs, though companies like the search engine Baidu and the conglomerate Tencent have already emerged as big players.
阿里巴巴引发的狂热突出表明，中国互联网的发展依然令人激动。中国互联网还有很多领域可以抢占，尽管搜索引擎百度及腾讯集团等公司已经成为互联网界的大玩家。
One of the areas most poised for growth is online commerce, according to analysts, with the potential to far outstrip American online sales. Shopping in China is increasingly moving online, aided by the growth of wireless Internet access and slower adaptation to modern trends by traditional physical retailers.
分析人士认为，在线商务是最具发展潜力的领域之一，中国的在线销售额可能会远远超过美国。无线网接入不断增加，传统实体零售商适应现代潮流的速度又比较慢，使得中国的购物模式日益网络化。
In a research note published this month, analysts at CLSA wrote that the value of online business-to-consumer sales in the country had grown twentyfold in three years, to $64 billion.
在本月发布的一份研究报告中，里昂证券(CLSA)的分析师写道，中国企业对消费者的网络销售额在三年的时间里增加了二十倍，达到640亿美元。
“The pending I.P.O. for Alibaba will help focus global attention on China’s huge e-commerce growth story and because of its size, all fund managers with a global, emerging markets, Asian, consumer or tech mandate will be forced to look at the company,” CLSA analysts wrote.
CLSA的分析师写道， “阿里巴巴即将进行的首次公开募股将促使全球关注中国电子商务大规模发展的故事，此外，由于此次募股规模巨大，有全球业务、新兴市场业务、亚洲业务、消费者或技术业务的所有基金经理都不得不把目光投向该公司。”
Alibaba has established itself as a behemoth in the business of buying and selling products online. The company is itself made up of several businesses, including Alibaba.com, a Web site for business-to-business sales; Taobao Marketplace, a giant eBay-like platform; and Alipay, an online payment service.
阿里巴巴已经将自己打造成了在线购买及销售领域的巨头。该公司本身就拥有多种业务，比如开展企业对企业销售业务的网站Alibaba.com，与巨头eBay类似的平台淘宝网，以及在线支付服务商支付宝。
Mr. Ma, a former English teacher from Hangzhou turned Internet entrepreneur, founded Alibaba.com in 1999 as a platform for businesses to trade products — like circuit breakers and hydraulic cylinders — with others.
马云曾是杭州的一名英语老师，后来才开始从事互联网行业。1999年，马云成立了阿里巴巴，各企业可以通过这个平台与其他公司进行产品交易——比如断路器和液压缸。
The company eventually moved onto more consumer-focused transactions through businesses like Taobao, which let individuals and small companies sell their wares online. Analysts now reckon that Taobao commands as much as 90 percent of consumer-to-consumer sales in China.
最后，通过淘宝等业务，阿里巴巴开始转向以消费者为主导的交易。个人和小公司都可以通过淘宝卖东西。分析人士估计，淘宝如今已经控制了中国多达90%的消费者对消费者交易。
Later came Tmall.com a more traditional business-to-consumer platform that has become one of the biggest commercial market places in China. CLSA analysts estimate its share of the business-to-consumer market at 57 percent.
再后来，天猫(Tmall.com)诞生，这个更加传统的企业对消费者平台已经成了中国最大的商业市场之一。据CLSA分析人士估计，天猫在企业对消费者市场中占了57%的份额。
It has become one of the most popular ways for foreign companies like Gap, Nike and Samsung to enter the Chinese market, according to Zia Daniell Wigder, a vice president and research director atForrester Research.
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)副总裁兼研究负责人齐亚·丹尼尔·维杰(Zia Daniell Wigder)说，天猫已经成为了盖璞(Gap)、耐克(Nike)和三星(Samsung)等外国公司进入中国市场的最流行方式之一。
The company has estimated that the gross value of merchandise sold on Taobao and Tmall.com last year exceeded $163 billion.
该研究公司估计，淘宝和天猫去年出售的商品总值超过了1630亿美元。
Alibaba also moved into the online payment space with Alipay, helping allay customers’ concerns about the trustworthiness of sellers. The service is based on an escrow system, where payments are held until the product is delivered.
阿里巴巴还通过支付宝(Alipay)进入了网络支付领域，减轻了顾客对商家诚信的怀疑。这项服务建立在第三方系统之上，在货品送达前暂时保管顾客所付资金。
“They were in early, and they localized heavily for the Chinese market,” Ms. Wigder said.
维杰说，“他们进入市场的时间很早，而且根据中国市场进行了高度的本土化。”
The company’s enormous growth has minted fortunes for its longtime stakeholders, including Mr. Ma and Joseph C. Tsai, the former American corporate lawyer who is Alibaba’s executive vice chairman. Earlier this year, Forbes estimated Mr. Ma’s net worth at about $3.4 billion, ranking him 11th in its list of Chinese billionaires.
公司的飞速发展为马云和蔡崇信(Joseph C. Tsai)等长期股东创造了财富。蔡崇信曾担任美国企业律师，如今是阿里巴巴的执行副主席。今年早些时候，福布斯(Forbes)估计马云的净资产约为34亿美元，位居福布斯中国富豪榜第11位。
Alibaba’s success has also paid dividends for an investor with whom the company has had a long and tumultuous history: Yahoo. The company took a 40 percent stake in Alibaba eight years ago for about $1 billion.
阿里巴巴的成功也给公司的投资人雅虎带来了好处，雅虎与阿里巴巴的合作历史可谓漫长而曲折。八年前，雅虎以10亿美元拿走了阿里巴巴40%的股份。
As Yahoo struggled to compete in its home market, its stake in the Chinese commerce titan accounted for an increasingly large portion of its own market value. Still, the sides butted heads a number of times over matters like Alibaba’s decision to spin off Alipay, a dispute that took two years to settle.
雅虎在其国内市场上的竞争颇为艰难，它所持有的这家商业巨头的股份在其市值中所占的比重越来越大。然而，双方曾多次在一些问题上发生争执，其中之一是阿里巴巴甩掉支付宝的决定，这项争议花了两年时间才解决。
Long eager to buy back that 40 percent stake, Alibaba struck an arrangement with Yahoo last year to reclaim those shares. The Chinese company bought back about half of Yahoo’s holdings for $7.6 billion, and can buy back an additional 10 percent after going public.
长期以来，阿里巴巴一直非常希望回购那40%的股份；去年，阿里巴巴与雅虎就回购这些股份达成协议。这家中国公司以76亿美元买回了大约一半的雅虎所持股份，上市后，它还可以从雅虎手中再买回10%的股份。
Yahoo has used that cash to embark on a campaign to reinvent itself, including a series of acquisitions like the $1.1 billion takeover of the social network Tumblr.
雅虎利用这笔资金对自身进行了全面改革，其中包括一系列收购，比如以11亿美元买下社交网络Tumblr。
Other current shareholders in Alibaba include SoftBank, the Japanese telecommunications giant that now controls Sprint; Silver Lake, the private equity firm that is helping take Dell private; and the China Investment Corporation, a $200 billion Chinese sovereign wealth fund.
目前，阿里巴巴的其他股东还包括如今控制Sprint的日本通讯巨头软银(SoftBank)、帮戴尔(Dell)实现私有化的私募股权公司银湖(Silver Lake)，以及价值2000亿美元的中国主权基金中国投资有限责任公司。
But while investors are salivating over a chance to buy a piece of Alibaba, at least one major party appears unhappy. In a long post on his official blog, the chief executive of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, Charles Li, admitted losing sleep weighing the arguments for and against relaxing the market operator’s rules on corporate governance. (He did not name Alibaba in the missive.)
虽然投资者纷纷对购买阿里巴巴股份的机会垂涎三尺，但至少有一个主要参与者似乎不太高兴。香港交易所行政总裁李小加(Charles Li)在其官方博客上发长文称，衡量放松市场运营机构对企业的监管制度的利弊之时，他辗转难眠。（他并未在文中提到阿里巴巴。）
“It is a substantial blow for the Hong Kong stock exchange,” said David Neuville, a partner in the Hong Kong office of the law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft.
凯威莱德律师事务所(Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft)香港办事处的合伙人戴维·努维(David Neuville)说，“对香港交易所来说，这是沉重的一击。”