The Chinese Internet giant Alibaba Group said on Monday that it had hired James R. Wilkinson, a former senior official of the Treasury Department, as its new head of international corporate affairs.
中国互联网巨头阿里巴巴集团周一宣布，已聘请前美国财政部高级官员詹姆斯·R·威尔金森(James R. Wilkinson)担任其国际企业事务负责人。
The hiring comes as Alibaba moves toward a listing in New York, a global coming out of sorts for the company.
这一任命正值阿里巴巴准备在纽约上市之际，而这次上市是该公司在国际舞台上一次充满挑战的尝试。
Mr. Wilkinson, known as Jim, was most recently at PepsiCo. He will be in charge of building out Alibaba’s international corporate affairs operation. Mr. Wilkinson joined PepsiCo in 2012 from the Brunswick Group, a communications firm.
威尔金森亦称吉姆(Jim)，他的上一份工作是在百事公司(PepsiCo.)。他将负责组建阿里巴巴的国际企业事务部门。威尔金森2012年加入百事公司，此前曾在公关公司Brunswick Group任职。
He is perhaps best known for his work as the chief of staff for former Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., serving in that role during the financial crisis. He also previously served as a senior adviser to Condoleezza Rice while she was secretary of state.
威尔金森曾在前财政部长小亨利·M·保尔森(Henry M. Paulson Jr.)手下担任幕僚长，当时正值金融危机，这可能是他最广为人知的经历。他还曾担任前美国国务卿康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)的高级顾问。
It is that government and international experience that Alibaba hopes to benefit from in its growing role as an Internet giant.
阿里巴巴正是希望能够利用他在政界和跨国公司的这些工作经历。作为一家大型互联网公司，阿里巴巴的影响力正不断扩大。
“As Alibaba extends our platform for entrepreneurs and small businesses around the world, it is important that we have the right people in place who have a track record of building bridges across geographic boundaries,” Jack Ma, Alibaba’s co-founder and executive chairman, said in a statement.
阿里巴巴联合创始人兼董事局主席马云在一份声明中说，“阿里巴巴正将公司的平台拓展到全球市场，能够找到一位适合的人选至关重要。吉姆的领导能力、全球经验和成功的历史将帮助阿里巴巴将公司使命传递给中国以外的其他市场。”
“Jim is a proven team builder and leader in global corporate affairs with a strong track record of integrity, passion and commitment that reflect the Alibaba values,” Joseph Tsai, Alibaba’s vice chairman, added.
阿里巴巴董事局执行副主席蔡崇信说：“在国际企业事务方面，吉姆是一个久经考验的团队创建者和领导者。他诚实正直、富有激情、非常敬业，这都符合阿里巴巴的价值观。”