When American tech upstarts float their companies on the stock market, they often sell investors on a familiar dream — “disrupting” an existing industry. It doesn’t matter if the industry is advertising, software, commerce or some other sector. The start-up will usually claim that its business is a great technological leap forward that will greatly lower costs and improve service for customers and leave rivals unable to respond. Therefore, buy some stock.
准备上市之时，美国的技术初创公司经常会向投资者出售一个熟悉的梦想——要“打破”某个现有行业，无论是广告业、软件业、商业还是其他行业。这些初创公司通常会标榜自己的业务是科技上的巨大飞跃，能极大地降低成本、改善为顾客提供的服务，让竞争对手无法接招。因此，买他们的股票吧。
Alibaba’s I.P.O. filing breaks with that well-worn theme. Instead of promising to disrupt an existing market, the Chinese e-commerce giant wants to do something far more straightforward, but potentially far more lucrative — insert itself at the center of a new, already expanding market being forged by powerful economic and cultural forces far beyond the company’s control.
阿里巴巴的首次公开募股(IPO)却打破了这个常理。这家中国电商巨头没有许诺打破某个现有市场，而是想做些直接得多、潜在利润却高得多的事情，也就是牢牢守住自己在这个正在扩张的新市场中的核心地位，而形成这个市场的强大经济和文化力量则远超出阿里巴巴的控制。
That new market is China itself, particularly its ascendant middle class and its growing appetite for spending rather than saving.
这个新的市场就是中国本身，尤其是中国不断膨胀的中产阶级及其越来越重消费轻储蓄的倾向。
Instead of disruption, Alibaba is betting on existing trends staying more or less the same: that China will continue to change into the world’s largest consumer gold mine, and Jack Ma, Alibaba’s charismatic co-founder and chairman, will continue to sit at the apex of the consumerist revolution.
阿里巴巴不打算打破现状，把赌注押给了现有趋势几乎保持不变的预测，也就是中国将继续成为世界上最大的消费者金矿，而阿里巴巴富有魅力的联合创始人兼总裁马云则将继续稳坐在消费主义革命的顶端。
Alibaba’s long-term goal highlights the difference in scope between Chinese Internet firms and their American counterparts. You may think of Jeffrey P. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, as an ambitious man, but he is really only betting that in the future, Americans will shift some of the dollars they are already spending from offline stores into his online store. He isn’t betting that Americans will start spending twice as much on everything as they do now.
阿里巴巴的长远目标突显了中国互联网公司与美国互联网公司的不同。人们或许会说亚马逊(Amazon)首席执行官杰弗里·P·贝佐斯(Jeffrey P. Bezos)是个有野心的人，但他实际上只是在赌这样一种局面：美国人将来会把花在实体店中的部分资金转入他的在线商店。他不会去赌美国人花在每样东西上的钱会比现在增加一倍。
That is precisely Mr. Ma’s bet. And as investors weigh Alibaba’s stock offering, they will have to consider which approach — Amazon’s disruption or Alibaba’s going along with an existing trend — is better.
而这正是马云的赌注。随着投资者对阿里巴巴的股票发行进行评估，他们必须思考的问题是哪种方式更好，是亚马逊这种打破市场的方式，还是阿里巴巴这种与时俱进的方式。
The numbers seem to be on Alibaba’s side. “Our business benefits from the rising spending power of Chinese consumers,” the firm says in its filing.
数据似乎站在阿里巴巴这边。这家公司在其上市申请文件中写道，“我们的业务受益于中国消费者不断膨胀的购买力。”
The crux of Alibaba’s pitch to investors is that Chinese customers will begin to act much more like American customers. Today, much of the Chinese population doesn’t spend very much money compared with their counterparts in the West. Only about a third of China’s gross domestic product is made up of consumer spending, significantly lower than the consumption rate of other countries. By comparison, about two-thirds of the United States’ economy is made up of consumer spending.
阿里巴巴向投资者兜售的重点是，中国消费者的购物方式将会变得更像美国消费者。现在，和西方消费者相比，大部分中国人花的钱还不是那么多。中国国内生产总值只有约三分之一是来自消费支出，这一比例远低于其他国家。相比之下，消费支出在美国经济当中占到了约三分之二的比例。
Mr. Ma is counting on these habits changing in his favor. Alibaba is betting that the Chinese will continually increase their spending and that a huge pool of new money will flood through China’s economy.
马云看好的就是这些有利于他的习惯改变。阿里巴巴赌的是中国人继续增加消费支出，由此将有一大笔新的资金流入中国经济。
Every economic metric suggests that is a very good bet. According to a recent report by McKinsey & Company, China’s middle class will continue to grow at a staggering pace well into the next decade. “The evolution of the middle class means that sophisticated and seasoned shoppers — those able and willing to pay a premium for quality and to consider discretionary goods and not just basic necessities — will soon emerge as the dominant force,” the report states.
所有经济指标都暗示这是一个很好的赌注。麦肯锡(McKinsey & Company)的一份近期报告显示，中国中产阶级在下一个十年会继续高速增长。这份报告称，“中产阶级增加意味着将出现更老练、更有经验的购物者，他们有能力也愿意多花点钱购买优质商品、随意购物而不仅限于基本需求，这部分人将很快成为消费的主力军。”
The McKinsey researchers noted that in 2000, just 4 percent of urban Chinese households earned a middle-class wage. By 2022, the study predicted, more than 75 percent of urban households will have joined the ranks of the middle class, with income among that group twice as much as it is today. The growth of this vast new market is occurring across the country and many of these newly wealthy people are hooked on online shopping.
麦肯锡研究人员写道，2000年，中国城市家庭中只有4%达到了中产阶级的收入水平。这份研究预测，到2022年，将有超过75%的城市家庭收入达到中产阶级水平，届时这个群体的收入将会是现在的两倍。这一巨大的新市场在全国各地都在增长，很多新富起来的人都喜欢网上购物。
“You’re really seeing consumer behavior change in all kinds of ways in China,” said Kelland Willis, an analyst who studies global retail trends at the research firm Forrester.
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester)研究全球零售业趋势的凯兰·威利斯(Kelland Willis)说，“你确实能看到，中国消费者的行为正在发生各个方面的变化。”
While the growing middle class has resulted in a growing population that can afford to shop, Ms. Willis said that many newly wealthy Chinese had been initially wary of spending money in the new ways that the Internet allowed for. Alibaba’s genius has been in recognizing and constantly adapting to society’s evolving views about shopping. The company has been adept at finding the reasons that people might be suspicious about spending money, then looking for novel fixes.
威利斯说，虽然不断膨胀的中产阶级已经使有购买力的人群规模越来越大，但很多新富起来的中国人起初曾对互联网带来的购物新方式怀有戒心。阿里巴巴的天才就在于它意识到并不断适应社会购物观念的演变。阿里巴巴善于找到人们可能会对花钱心存疑虑的原因，然后寻找新的解决办法。
“What you see them doing is trying to understand exactly what the Chinese consumer wants and then experimenting with technological solutions to address those problems,” she said.
她说，“他们在做的是力求准确理解中国消费者想要什么，然后尝试用技术方案解决这些问题。”
That plan has worked phenomenally well so far. As the I.P.O. filing points out, Alibaba already commands a vast portion of the Chinese e-commerce market. Of the 302 million Internet shoppers in China, 231 million already shop at Alibaba’s properties. More than 76 percent of the total value of all mobile commerce in China flows through Alibaba.
这个计划到目前为止一直成果显著。就像IPO文件指出的那样，阿里巴巴已经主导了很大一部分中国电商市场。中国的3.02亿网购者当中，有2.31亿人在阿里巴巴旗下的网站买过东西。中国移动商务总额当中有超过76%的比例经由阿里巴巴完成。
What is more, offline retail in China is a far less developed part of the economy than in the United States. This means that unlike American e-commerce companies, Alibaba isn’t fighting against brick-and-mortar stores or even another online retailer. Instead, it is riding a bigger tide. As wealth grows, Alibaba is pushing to make shopping of all kinds a safer and more widely practiced part of Chinese life.
此外，与美国相比，中国的实体零售业在经济中很不发达。这意味着，与美国的电子商务公司不同，阿里巴巴并不是在与实体商店甚或另一家在线零售商竞争。相反，它是在引领一个更大的潮流。随着资金增多，阿里巴巴正在努力将各种购物方式变得更安全，更广泛地出现在中国人的生活当中。
A big example is Alipay, the online payment system that Alibaba introduced in 2004. In the United States, online payment companies like PayPal were meant to replace older, more costly and slower ways of paying, like personal checks or money transfers. But in China, online payments weren’t really a replacement of an old way of doing business. For many people just entering the consumptive middle class, the whole idea of paying large sums in any way, whether offline or online, has always been risky. Fraud and trickery abounded and buyer protections weren’t an ingrained part of consumerism.
最好的例子就是阿里巴巴在2004年引入的在线支付系统，支付宝。在美国，像PayPal这样的在线支付公司是为了取代个人支票或转账等成本更高、速度更慢的陈旧支付方式。但在中国，在线支付并不能算是过去交易方式的替代品。对于很多刚刚成为喜好消费的中产阶级的人来说，不管是在线上还是线下，支付一大笔钱的行为都有风险。欺诈无处不在，而保护消费者的观念又不是消费主义的固有成分。
Thus, unlike PayPal, Alibaba didn’t just need to come up with a faster or more efficient way of paying. It needed to find a payment method that would allay people’s fears that paying for goods was a bad idea in the first place.
所以，与PayPal不同，阿里巴巴并不只是需要提供一种更快或更有效的支付方式。它首先需要找到一种能减轻人们忧虑的支付方式，让人觉得付钱购买商品不是个坏点子。
Its innovation was escrow. When a buyer purchases an item from a seller using Alipay, the firm holds the buyer’s money in an account. Only when the buyer informs Alipay that she has received her goods does the payment firm release the money to the seller.
阿里巴巴的创新是一种第三方支付方式。当买家从使用支付宝的卖家手中购买一件商品时，阿里巴巴会把买家的资金扣在一个账户里。只有在买家通知支付宝已经收货之后，公司才会把钱打给卖家。
This sounds like a simple, perhaps even obvious, idea. It’s hardly a technological breakthrough. But that’s exactly the point. The Chinese market didn’t need an extremely sophisticated way of paying for goods. It simply needed a way to pay for goods that wasn’t rife with fraud. Alipay satisfied that minimum requirement, adding a badly needed sense of buyer protection over the consumer market. It has become a juggernaut. According to Alibaba, the payment site now commands about half the market for electronic commerce in China.
这听起来似乎是个简单乃至显而易见的想法，基本算不上技术突破。但这正是问题的关键。中国市场不需要一种非常精密的方式来支付购买商品的资金，只需要一种不存在欺诈的支付方式。支付宝满足了这个小小的要求，给消费者市场增加了一种急需的消费者保护意识。如今，它已经变得非常强大。阿里巴巴表示，支付宝网站现在控制着中国大约一半的电商市场。
Many of Alibaba’s other innovations have followed a similar pattern. To Americans, Alibaba’s breakthroughs may look comically backward compared with the technological wizardry being peddled by Amazon, Google, Facebook and Apple. There are no unmanned drones, robotic warehouses, self-driving cars or software-based assistants.
阿里巴巴的其他许多创新也遵循着相似的模式。对于美国人而言，与亚马逊、谷歌(Google)、Facebook和苹果(Apple)兜售的科技魔力相比，阿里巴巴的突破或许看起来落后得可笑。这里没有无人机、机械化仓库、自动驾驶汽车或者智能助理。
But as admirable as they may be, these American efforts at disruption are also far riskier than Alibaba’s simple plan to ride a cultural wave. Nobody knows if self-driving cars will pan out or if we will ever be O.K. with aerial drones delivering our toothpaste. But the idea of serving a gigantic new consumer market with a set of tools to make shopping easier and safer? That’s not disruptive. It’s obvious. And often, what is obvious wins.
然而，美国人的这些突破性努力虽然令人赞赏，风险却比阿里巴巴跟随文化浪潮的简单计划大得多。没人知道自动驾驶汽车能否成功，也没人知道我们能不能接受无人机给我们运送牙膏。那么，通过一系列让购物变得简单安全的工具来服务一个巨大的新消费市场的想法呢？这没有任何颠覆性可言。这个想法显而易见。而显而易见的事物往往会成功。