Herb and Martha Oberman have made a good living on eBay for 17 years, selling paper collectibles like a $5,000 limited-edition menu from the Hotel Bel-Air, the Los Angeles hotel once frequented by Marilyn Monroe.
17年来，靠在eBay上做生意，赫布和玛莎·奥伯曼(Herb and Martha Oberman)的日子一直过得不错。他们卖的是纸张藏品，比如标价5000美元（约合3.2万元人民币）的贝尔艾尔酒店(Hotel Bel-Air)限量版菜单。那是洛杉矶的一家酒店，当年经常光顾的客人包括玛丽莲·梦露(Marilyn Monroe)。
But the Dallas couple felt their vintage offerings would also do well with a younger, hipper and more global crowd than their eBay store was attracting. So earlier this year, when they learned that a slick online marketplace called 11 Main was looking for vendors, they jumped at the chance to try something new.
不过，达拉斯的这对夫妇感到，这些古香古色的商品也会受到更年轻、更新潮、更加全球化的顾客的欢迎，而不光是eBay上的这群客户。因此，今年早些时候，当得知一个叫做11 Main的时髦电子商务网站正在寻找商家时，他们立刻抓住了这个尝试新鲜事物的机会。
“When I first read about 11 Main, I had absolutely no idea what it was,” Mr. Oberman said. Then he found out that it was backed by a major company in China. “I have to say we were very, very excited,” he said.
赫布说，“我第一次听说11 Main的时候，完全不知道那是什么东西。”后来他发现，11 Main是由中国的一家大公司支持的。“我必须承认，我们当时非常、非常兴奋，”他说。
The Obermans are among the early vendors joining 11 Main, a creation of Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant that just filed to go public in New York. Part eBay, part Amazon, the site — Alibaba’s first to specifically aim at American shoppers — is not yet open for business. But early screenshots of the site provided by vendors offer some clues of the Chinese company’s nascent plans in the United States.
奥博曼夫妇是最早加入11 Main的商家之一。这家网站由刚刚申请在纽约上市的中国电商巨头阿里巴巴创办。它结合了eBay和亚马逊(Amazon)的业务类型，是阿里巴巴专门针对美国消费者的首次尝试，目前还没上线。不过，一些商家提早提供了这家网站的截屏，为我们了解这家中国企业在美国的新计划提供了一些线索。
Gone are the miscellany and fake merchandising that have marred Alibaba’s global mass-market shopping sites in China, like Tmall. In their place on 11 Main are carefully selected items — laid out in a clean, airy style that combines elements of Pinterest and Instagram. The name is intended to evoke the idea of Main Street U.S.A. It is a strategy that suggests Alibaba is willing to reinvent itself as it enters the fray here against the likes of eBay, Amazon and Etsy.
这个网站将商品质量良莠不齐、假货泛滥的问题一扫而空。这些问题一直困扰着阿里巴巴在中国的全球大众市场购物网站，比如天猫。在11 Main上，则是精心挑选的商品，通过结合了Pinterest和Instagram的清爽活泼的风格加以呈现。11 Main的名字是为了让人联想起美国小镇大街(Main Street U.S.A.)。这个策略显示出，在加入与eBay、亚马逊和Etsy等电商的竞争中时，阿里巴巴愿意改变自己。
So far, Alibaba is just dipping its toes into the United States market. Despite its financial resources, the company isn’t spending heavily on 11 Main. It is handpicking vendors through a selective vetting process. It is also pursuing small, targeted investments in consumer-focused start-up firms, rather than making big acquisitions as it is doing in China. The initiatives represent a tiny piece of Alibaba’s overall business, which handled more than $200 billion in goods last year.
迄今为止，阿里巴巴进入美国市场的步伐小心翼翼。尽管财力雄厚，但阿里巴巴没有对11 Main投入重金。它正在通过精挑细选的审查程序来甄选商家，同时寻求对专注于消费者的初创公司进行有针对性的小规模投资，而不是像在中国那样，进行大笔收购。这些活动只占阿里巴巴整体业务的一小部分。去年，阿里巴巴经手了价值超过2000亿美元的商品交易。
But taken together, these efforts provide a window into Alibaba’s plans for the world’s largest market for online commerce. Being careful not to be seen as overambitious in the United States, the company is developing contacts, gleaning information about consumers and closely studying the leaders.
但是加在一起，这些行动提供了一个窗口，让外界得以一窥阿里巴巴在世界最大的电子商务市场的计划。这家公司不愿在美国被视作好高骛远，它正在建立人脉、搜集关于消费者的信息，并且密切研究市场上的领先者。
“It’s impossible to dismiss them,” said Carlos Kirjner, an analyst at Bernstein Research. “They are just too big.”
伯恩斯坦研究公司(Bernstein Research)的分析师卡洛斯·基里纳尔(Carlos Kirjner)说，“无法忽视他们。他们太大了。”
The heart of Alibaba’s efforts is a small group based in Silicon Valley that is acting as both a venture capital firm and an e-commerce company.
阿里巴巴行动的核心是一家位于硅谷的小企业，它既是一家风险资本公司，也是一家电商公司。
To build up its 11 Main site, headquartered in San Mateo, Calif., Alibaba has recruited seasoned hands in e-commerce from the likes of eBay, Gap and Walmart. A separate office in nearby Santa Clara is tasked with making investments in the United States and Europe. The goal is to find Internet start-ups with business models that it could learn from — and maybe own outright someday.
为了打造总部位于圣马特奥的11Main网站，阿里巴巴从eBay、Gap和沃尔玛等公司雇佣了在电子商务领域经验丰富的雇员。位于附近圣克拉拉的另一间办公室则负责在美国和欧洲投资。他们的目标是寻找拥有可借鉴商业模式的互联网初创公司，希望或许有一天可以收购这些公司。
“They want to be plugged into Silicon Valley,” said one person with direct knowledge of the company’s strategy. “They want to back good teams, see the newest trends, and the way you do that is by funding new companies.”
一名直接了解公司战略的人说，“他们想要打入硅谷。他们想要支持好的企业，了解最新的趋势，要做到这一点，就得资助新公司。”
Over the last several months, the investment team has arranged for Alibaba to take stakes in a half-dozen companies. It participated in a $250 million fund-raising round for Lyft, a car ride start-up that competes with Uber, and it invested $202 million in ShopRunner, an e-commerce delivery service led by a former Yahoo chief executive, Scott Thompson.
过去几个月，该投资团队已经安排阿里巴巴买入了六家公司的股份。它参与了一轮为Lyft融资2.5亿美元的筹资活动，这是一家与Uber类似的提供拼车服务的初创公司，此外，它还投资了2.02亿美元给ShopRunner，一家由前雅虎首席执行官斯科特 ·汤普森(Scott Thompson)创办的电子商务物流公司。
“They are staying in touch, developing their contacts, and eventually some of these companies could become acquisition candidates or partners,” said Sameet Sinha, an analyst at B. Riley & Company. “That’s their M.O.”
B. Riley & Company的分析师萨米特·辛哈(Sameet Sinha)说，“他们正在了解情况，发展联系人，最终其中的一些公司可能成为收购的候选对象或合伙人。这是他们的做事方法。”
To lead the effort, the company hired Michael Zeisser, a Frenchman who led Liberty Media’s digital commerce division, overseeing properties like Evite.com and ProFlowers.com. One of his inspirations for the investment strategy is Facebook, which has become a platform of sorts by keeping acquisitions like Instagram and WhatsApp as separate brands.
公司聘请了迈克尔·泽瑟(Michael Zeisser)来负责这个计划。泽瑟是法国人，曾经领导Liberty Media的数字商业部门，管理Evite.com和ProFlowers.com等资产。他的投资战略灵感之一是Facebook，后者通过维持自己收购的Instagram和WhatsApp等品牌的独立性，变得好像一个平台似的。
Alibaba recently led a $280 million investment in Tango, a messaging service based in Mountain View, Calif., that competes with WhatsApp — which Facebook bought this year for more than $16 billion — and Tencent’s WeChat. Alibaba viewed Tango as a promising player in an important market, and spent time courting the start-up. Jack Ma, Alibaba’s chairman, invited Tango’s founders to meet him at his offices in Hangzhou, while Alibaba’s vice chairman, Joseph C. Tsai, held long conversations about strategy over dinners.
阿里巴巴最近主导了对加州山景城的即时通讯服务Tango的2.8亿美元的投资。Tango的竞争对手是WhatsApp——这是Facebook今年以超过160亿美元的价格收购的应用——和腾讯的微信。阿里巴巴把Tango看做一个重要市场的潜力无限的参与者，它花了一些时间来讨好这家初创公司。阿里巴巴的董事长马云邀请Tango的创始人在他在杭州的办公室见面，副董事长蔡崇信则在晚宴上就公司战略与对方进行了长时间的交流。
How Alibaba would differentiate itself in a crowded market for online shopping remains unclear. Amazon casts a long shadow. Start-ups like Gilt and One Kings Lane have found good niches. And while big-name American retailers like Walmart and Best Buy have developed strong e-commerce operations, they have failed to threaten the dominance of Amazon and eBay.
阿里巴巴将如何在拥挤的电商市场脱颖而出仍不清楚。亚马逊的影响力不可小觑。Gilt和One Kings Lane这样的初创公司都找到了很好的小众市场。尽管沃尔玛(Walmart)和百思买(Best Buy)等赫赫有名的美国零售商已经开发了强大的电商业务，他们都未能威胁到亚马逊和eBay的统治地位。
“To think they could compete with the likes of Amazon, eBay and Google on their home turf is a bit of a stretch,” said Mr. Sinha of B. Riley. “They can’t just spend $100 million and say they’re going to enter the U.S. That’s not going to work. There’s zero brand presence.”
B·Riley公司的辛哈说，“如果认为他们能够在亚马逊、eBay和谷歌的地盘上与它们竞争，那有点不现实。他们不可能投个1亿美元，就说自己打算进入美国。这是行不通的。他们完全没有品牌影响力。”
That is one issue that Alibaba may be trying to address as it prepares to start 11 Main.
随着阿里巴巴为11 Main的上线做准备，这可能成了它正在设法解决的一个问题。
To appeal to shoppers in the United States, 11 Main appears to be aiming at upscale shoppers by creating a simple, easy-to-navigate site featuring high-quality merchandise and an easy payment system. That approach has piqued the interest of local vendors, who say they would welcome shaking up an increasingly staid e-commerce industry long dominated by the usual names.
为了吸引美国的购物者，11 Main似乎旨在通过一个简洁、易于浏览的网站，以高质量的商品和便捷的支付系统，着眼于高端购物者。这个办法激起了当地商家的兴趣，他们说，将欢迎该网站改变这个日益僵化的电子商务行业的格局。长期以来，该行业一直由几家知名公司所主导。
In 2010, Alibaba acquired the eBay listing tools Auctiva and Vendio, which gave it access to over 250,000 eBay sellers who were responsible for an estimated 5 to 10 percent of eBay’s listings at the time, according to Ina Steiner, who is a co-founder of EcommerceBytes.com, a news site for online retailers. The 11 Main site now taps Auctiva’s technology to allow sellers to upload their existing eBay listings to 11 Main.
据在线零售业新闻网站EcommerceBytes.com 的联合创始人艾娜·斯坦纳(Ina Steiner)透露，2010年，阿里巴巴收购了eBay的商品发布工具Auctiva和Vendio，这让它获得了超过25万户eBay商家。据估算，这些商家发布的商品相当于eBay发布的所有商品的5%到10%。 目前，11 Main利用Auctiva的技术，允许商家把自己现有的eBay商品发布内容上传到该公司的网站上。
That direct tap into a major competitor, along with 11 Main’s careful selection of vendors for its site and Alibaba’s great financial resources, could give 11 Main the clout and means to differentiate itself from the established competitors here, Ms. Steiner said.
斯坦纳说，直接借力于主要竞争对手，以及11 Main对网站商家的仔细挑选和阿里巴巴的强大财力，会为11 Main带来影响力，并能为其提供与其他老牌竞争对手区分开来的手段。
“There’s absolutely space in the U.S. marketplace for Alibaba,” Ms. Steiner said. “EBay doesn’t necessarily attract younger shoppers or high-end shoppers. If 11 Main can come up with a new marketing image that would appeal to a whole new set of shoppers, they’d do well.”
斯坦纳说，“美国市场肯定有阿里巴巴大展拳脚的空间。eBay不一定能吸引更年轻的购物者或高端购物者。如果11 Main能塑造出崭新的营销形象，吸引各种新型购物群体，他们会有不错的成绩。”