In the battle to be the market home for the Alibaba Group, the winner is the New York Stock Exchange.
在争取成为阿里巴巴集团上市场所的战斗中，最终获胜的是纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)。
Alibaba, the Chinese Internet commerce giant, disclosed in an amended prospectus on Thursday that it planned to list on the Big Board, under the ticker symbol BABA. )
周四，中国互联网商务巨头阿里巴巴发布了经过修改的招股说明书。该公司计划在人称大行情板(Big Board)的纽交所上市，股票代码为BABA。
The choice is a big victory for the New York Stock Exchange, which had competed with the Nasdaq stock market for what is expected to be one of the biggest initial public offerings in years. Shares of Alibaba could begin trading as soon as early August, according to people briefed on the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
对于纽交所来说，这个选择是一个重大胜利，纽交所与纳斯达克交易所(Nasdaq)竞相争夺多年来规模最大的首次公开募股(IPO)交易。据要求匿名的知情人士透露，阿里巴巴最快可能在8月初开始发售股票。
Alibaba will be the New York Stock Exchange’s biggest Internet I.P.O. Facebook chose the Nasdaq exchange in its market debut two years ago. 
阿里巴巴上市计划将成为纽交所规模最大的互联网IPO。两年前，Facebook选择在纳斯达克进行IPO。
“We participated in a comprehensive and deliberate exchange selection process and we are pleased to welcome Alibaba Group to the New York Stock Exchange, where they will join our network of the world’s best companies and leading brands,” a spokeswoman for the New York Stock Exchange said in a statement.
纽交所的一名女发言人发表声明称，“我们参与了一次全面且慎重的交易所选择过程，我们欢迎阿里巴巴集团进驻纽交所，加入我们这个世界顶尖公司和领先品牌的网络。”
A Nasdaq spokesman said,  “Alibaba is a terrific company, and we wish them well as they pursue their initial public offering.”
纳斯达克的一名发言人表示，“阿里巴巴是一家非常棒的公司，我们希望他们在进行IPO时一切顺利。”
The two exchanges constantly compete for highly anticipated initial stock offerings, hoping to win listing fees and — perhaps more important — the prestige of big names that could draw other market debutantes.
两家交易所一直在争夺这宗万众期待的IPO交易，希望赚到这笔上市费，同时——或许更重要的是——想通过知名公司的影响力吸引其他刚刚进入市场的公司。
Nasdaq has captured a bigger percentage of the 142 initial public offerings this year, with roughly 57 percent, according to data from Renaissance Capital. Part of the reason for that lead has been the exchange’s continued dominance in the listings of biotechnology companies.
根据复兴资本公司(Renaissance Capital)的数据，在今年142个IPO交易中，纳斯达克以大约57%的份额领先。部分原因是，纳斯达克继续在生物技术公司上市领域保持主导地位。
But I.P.O.s on the New York Stock Exchange have raised more money this year. Such deals have raised $18.8 billion, or nearly 62 percent of the total capital raised. 
不过，今年在纽交所进行的IPO则筹得了更多资金。纽交所的此类交易已筹集了188亿美元（约合1170亿元人民币），将近达到今年IPO总筹资额的62%。
Furthermore, the Big Board leads in technology initial offerings this year, with 20 compared with Nasdaq’s 16. That follows a big push to muscle into what had traditionally been Nasdaq’s turf. 
不仅如此，纽交所今年在吸引科技股上市方面处于领先地位，在纽交所上市的科技公司达到了20家，纳斯达克只有16家。此举是纽交所为攻占纳斯达克传统地盘大费苦功后取得的成果。
One of the New York Stock Exchange’s biggest coups was attracting Twitter, in one of the most prominent I.P.O.s last year.
纽交所最成功的案例之一，是在去年最知名的IPO争夺战中吸引了Twitter。
At the same time, Nasdaq has won a number of noted Chinese Internet companies, including the search engine operator Baidu and the e-commerce specialist JD.com.
与此同时，纳斯达克争取到了大量知名的中国互联网公司，包括搜索引擎百度和专业电商网站。
Still, several people briefed on Alibaba’s deliberations have said in recent months that the New York Stock Exchange held an edge over its competitor. 
尽管如此，几名了解阿里巴巴商议过程的人士已表示，近几个月，纽交所在和对手的交锋中占了上风。
One factor that may have weighed on some executives’ minds was Facebook’s botched I.P.O., a morass of trading delays and investor anger that tainted Nasdaq’s reputation.
有一个因素也许对一些高管的利弊权衡产生了影响，那就是Facebook的IPO被搞砸了，交易被延迟导致的困境和投资者的怒火败坏了纳斯达克的声誉。
That Alibaba is listing in the United States at all is because both American exchanges are comfortable with its unusual corporate governance structure. Alibaba features a “partnership,” a group of 27 insiders who will nominate a majority of board members.
阿里巴巴最终选择在美国上市，是因为这两家美国交易所均能安然接受该公司异乎寻常的管理架构。阿里巴巴采取了一种“合伙人制度”，一个由27名内部人士组成的团体将负责提名董事会多数成员。
The structure is not quite the same as a dual-class stock system in which certain investors hold shares with significantly more voting power than others. But it still ran afoul of the one-share-one-vote principle that governs the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, Alibaba’s home market. 
这种架构和双层股权结构(dual-class)不太一样，在后一种架构中，特定持股人享有的投票权力比其他人大得多。不过，它依然有悖于阿里巴巴的本土市场——香港交易所的“一股一票”原则。