The Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce giant, has been on a buying spree since the start of last year, spending billions of dollars to acquire stakes in businesses like department stores and mapping services in China and an array of technology start-ups in the United States.
自去年年初开始，中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团开始大肆收购，花费数十亿美元买入多家公司的股份，比如中国的百货公司及地图服务企业，以及美国的一系列科技业初创公司。
But has the company bitten off more than it can chew?
但阿里巴巴是有些好高骛远吗？
On Friday, the company announced that it had discovered suspicious accounting at one of its acquisitions — a Hong Kong film company that it bought control of for about $800 million just two months ago.
上周五，阿里巴巴宣布发现其中一家收购的公司可能存在会计违规行为。阿里巴巴在两个月前以大约8亿美元（约合49亿元人民币）的价格收购了这家香港的影视公司。
Among the main concerns is whether Alibaba fully vetted the acquisition. The issue could complicate Alibaba’s efforts to court investors for its anticipated initial public offering of stock, which could be the biggest in American history.
一个主要问题是，阿里巴巴是否事先全面审查了这宗收购案？这一问题可能会破坏阿里巴巴为其首次公开募股(IPO)吸引投资者所做的努力。阿里巴巴的IPO备受期待，有望成为美国历史上规模最大的上市案。
The film company, the Alibaba Pictures Group, formerly the ChinaVision Media Group, said on Friday that it had discovered “possible noncompliant accounting treatments” involving insufficient provision for impairments on assets, or write-downs, which were not identified. The company said that it would miss an Aug. 31 deadline to report its earnings for the first six months of the year and that its shares would be suspended from trading until its audit committee could complete a formal inquiry.
周五，阿里巴巴影业集团表示，该公司发现“可能存在不恰当财务处理行为”，涉及资产计提减值准备不足，但并未点明具体情况。该公司前身为文化中国传播集团。阿里影业表示，公司将无法在截止日期8月31日前发布上半年的财报，并且将在审计委员会完成正式调查之前暂停股票交易。
The accounting issues at Alibaba Pictures may raise concerns about whether Alibaba, which analysts say could raise as much as $20 billion in a New York initial stock offering as early as next month, has been conducting sufficient research on potential takeover targets.
阿里影业的财务问题可能引发担忧，即阿里巴巴是否对潜在的收购目标进行了充分调查？分析人士称，阿里巴巴最早将于下个月在纽约上市，筹集的资金最高可达200亿美元。
A deal in June, for instance, to pay nearly $200 million for a 50 percent stake in the Guangzhou Evergrande Football Club, a Chinese soccer team, was wrapped up in a matter of days after Alibaba’s executive chairman, Jack Ma, agreed to the investment while having drinks with Evergrande’s owner, a billionaire real estate developer.
例如，阿里巴巴于今年6月拿出近2亿美元收购了广州恒大足球俱乐部50%的股份。阿里巴巴的董事局主席马云在与恒大老板——一名从事房地产开发的亿万富翁——喝酒时达成投资意向，几天之内便完成了这笔交易。
Alibaba agreed in March to buy a 60 percent stake in ChinaVision, which produces and distributes films and television programs in China, for 6.24 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $804 million at the time. The deal was completed in June.
阿里巴巴在今年3月达成协议，以62.4亿港元（当时约合8.04亿美元）的价格收购文化中国传播集团60%的股份。该交易于6月份完成。文化中国的主营业务是在中国制作与发行影视内容。
Alibaba renamed the company Alibaba Pictures and installed its own slate of directors. Last month, Alibaba Pictures issued a profit warning, saying that because of a drop in revenue, it expected to book a substantial loss in the first six months of this year, compared with a profit of $18 million in the same period in 2013. The film unit also announced plans to work with the respected Hong Kong director Wong Kar-wai on future productions.
阿里巴巴将该公司更名为阿里巴巴影业集团，并任命了自己提名的董事。上个月，阿里影业发布盈利预警，称由于收入减少，公司上半年预计会录得大幅亏损。相比之下，公司去年同期的利润为1800万美元。阿里影业还宣布，未来将与香港著名导演王家卫合作拍片。
“The big question is whether Alibaba did proper accounting due diligence,” said Paul Gillis, a professor at Peking University’s Guanghua School of Management, who writes a blog about accounting issues in China. He pointed out that movie rights were the biggest asset on the balance sheet of most film companies, but the carrying value of these rights needs to be regularly adjusted based on the forecast cash flows from the films.
北京大学光华管理学院教授保罗·吉利斯(Paul Gillis)表示， “重要的问题在于，阿里巴巴是否对会计工作进行了恰当的合规调查。”吉利斯开通了一个有关中国会计问题的博客。他指出，电影版权是大多数电影公司资产负债表中最大的资产，但电影版权的置存价值需要根据影片的预期现金流定期进行调整。
“It sounds like the company was not doing that correctly,” Professor Gillis said.
吉利斯表示，“听起来，这家公司没有采取正确做法。”
Alibaba issued a vote of confidence in its new film unit on Friday, describing it as the “flagship company” in its growing entertainment business.
周五，阿里巴巴集团表达了对新的影业子公司的信心，称其为阿里巴巴不断扩大的娱乐业务中的“旗舰公司”。
Alibaba “fully supports the new management of Ali Pictures as they thoroughly review and rectify the possible financial noncompliance they have found with the former ChinaVision,” the e-commerce company said in an emailed statement. “The new management team has a firm commitment to transparency, good corporate governance and investor protection, and the actions they have taken are consistent with this commitment.”
阿里巴巴“全力支持阿里影业的新管理团队，对他们所发现的文化中国传播集团可能存在的财务不合规问题，进行彻底的审阅和纠正”，阿里巴巴采用电子邮件发表声明称。“新的管理团队坚决致力于透明、良好的企业治理和投资者保护工作，而他们采取的行动亦与这些承诺保持一致。”
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu is the film unit’s longtime auditor.Goldman Sachs advised Alibaba on the acquisition, while Reorient, a Hong Kong brokerage firm, advised ChinaVision.
德勤会计师事务所(Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu)长期以来一直为该影业公司提供审计服务。高盛(Goldman Sachs)是阿里巴巴实施这笔收购交易的顾问，而香港咨询公司瑞东集团是文化中国传播集团的顾问。
Alibaba Pictures said the potential accounting issues had been discovered by its new management as part of “an initial review of the company’s financial and business affairs.”
阿里影业表示，“在对公司的财务及经营状况进行初步审阅时”，新的管理团队发现了可能存在的会计问题。
“The board’s audit committee has therefore begun a further inquiry into the matters concerned, in accordance with an action plan approved by the board to determine the cause, impact and extent of the relevant issues,” the film unit said. “It is currently uncertain how long the further inquiry will take.”
“按照董事会批准的行动方案，董事会的审计委员会因此开展了针对相关事宜的进一步审阅，以确定相关问题的产生原因、造成的影响及范围，”阿里影业称。“目前尚不能确定进一步审阅所需的时间。”
The broader issue highlighted by the accounting disclosure is the ability of Alibaba — and several of its peers that are also on acquisition binges — to successfully execute deals, from thoroughly scrutinizing targets to making them a financial and operational fit with the rest of the group after they are bought.
会计漏洞突显出的更大问题是，阿里巴巴——以及同样热衷于收购的几家同类企业——是否拥有成功执行这些交易的能力，包括如何彻底审查投资目标，以及在完成收购之后，如何让新的子公司在财务和运营方面与整个集团相契合。
Mergers and acquisitions of technology companies have been soaring globally. In the first half of this year, they reached their highest level by deal value since 2000, according to Dealogic, a financial data company.
从全球来看，科技公司的并购交易持续激增。根据金融数据公司Dealogic提供的信息，今年上半年，此类交易的总规模创下了2000年以来的新高。
But in China, only in the last few years have companies reached the necessary size to make large deals possible. Alibaba’s cash on hand doubled over the last two years, to $7 billion as of March 31, and the company has been aggressively putting that to work. Dealogic’s data show that the company has spent $6.6 billion on 30 acquisitions it has announced since the start of 2013.
但在中国，直到最近几年才有公司达到了可以开展大型交易的必要规模。阿里巴巴持有的现金过去两年翻了一番，截至3月31日已达到70亿美元，而且集团也一直在积极地利用这些资金。Dealogic的数据显示，从2013年开始，阿里巴巴已经宣布达成了30笔收购交易，总投资规模为66亿美元。
Here are some of Alibaba’s recent acquisitions in China:
以下是阿里巴巴近期在中国开展的部分收购交易：
■ A 60 percent stake in ChinaVision, for $804 million.
收购文化中国传播集团60%的股份，价格为8.04亿美元。
■ The 82 percent of the Chinese mapping service AutoNavi that it did not own, for $1.1 billion.
收购尚未拥有的中国地图服务商高德软件82%的股份，价格为11亿美元。
■ A 16.5 percent stake of Youku Tudou, an Internet video company, for $1.1 billion.
收购网络视频公司优酷土豆16.5%的股份，价格为11亿美元。
■ A 26 percent stake in Intime Retail, a Chinese department store, for about $692 million.
收购中国百货商店运营商银泰商业集团26%的股份，价格约为6.92亿美元。
■ A 30 percent stake in the Sina Corporation‘s Weibo microblogging service — now publicly traded — for $586 million.
收购新浪微博（现已上市）30%的股份，价格为5.86亿美元。
■ The roughly one-third of UCWeb, a Chinese mobile web browser maker, that it didn’t own, for an undisclosed amount.
收购尚未拥有的中国移动互联网浏览器提供商UC优视约三分之一的股份，交易金额未披露。