HONG KONG — A year ago, Alibaba executives were preparing a roadshow that paved the way for one of the biggest initial public offerings in history.
香港——就在一年前，阿里巴巴高管们还在准备一场巡回宣传，为历史上最大的首次公开发行股票铺平道路。 
As the company reported its earnings on Wednesday, saying net profit had risen a less-than-expected 28 percent, it appeared the excitement that filled the boardrooms of banks across the globe had dulled.
在周三发布的公司财政报告中，阿里巴巴表示，净利润增长了28％，低于预期，因此看来，当初世界各地银行董事会会议室中充满的兴奋已转化为低沉。
Faced with a slowing economy, new challenges making money on smartphones and a little bad luck, Alibaba’s stock has fallen about 35 percent from its November 2014 highs, and was just 14 percent above the I.P.O. price of $68 before the latest results were released.
由于经济放缓，加上智能手机行业的新挑战，以及一点坏运气，阿里巴巴的股价已从2014年11月的高点下跌了约35％，在公司发布最新营收情况之前，股价只比首发时的每股68美元高出14％。
As part of its efforts to shore up its share price, Alibaba said on Wednesday that it would authorize a $4 billion share buyback program over two years. The program is intended to help offset dilution of shares from employee compensation tied to stock.
作为其提振股价努力的一部分，阿里巴巴周三表示，将授权在未来两年内回购价值达40亿美元的股票。这一计划的目的是帮助弥补用股票奖酬员工所带来的稀释效应。
Alibaba’s shares were down about 4.8 percent in premarket trading on Wednesday after the news of the revenue miss.
营收低于预期的消息出来之后，阿里巴巴的股价在周三盘前交易中下跌了约4.8％。
Alibaba has faced a turbulent first year as a public company, but analysts said there were signs suggesting that better growth lay ahead. In June, the company warned analysts that a government ban on selling online lottery tickets and a decrease in fees for its group-buying marketplace would affect earnings. Its share price on Tuesday was also hurt by the Chinese central bank’s move to weaken the renminbi.
虽然作为一家上市公司，阿里巴巴经历了一个动荡的第一年，但分析师表示，有迹象表明公司仍有较好的增长前景。今年六月，阿里巴巴曾警告分析师，由于政府禁止网上销售彩票以及其团购市场收费的降低，公司营收将会受到影响。阿里巴巴周二股价的下跌也受到了中国央行让人民币贬值的影响。
“I think most of the disappointment is from the monetization rate, which dropped after the I.P.O.,” said Elinor Leung, an analyst at the brokerage and investment group CLSA, referring to the amount the company makes from each user of its services. “The reasons for the monetization drop are temporary, and don’t change the fundamentals of the business.”
从事证券交易和投资的里昂证券(CLSA)的分析师梁向奕(Elinor Leung)说，“我觉得最让人们失望的是货币化率，这个考量在IPO之后出现下降。”货币化率指的是公司从每个使用其服务的用户所赚得的收入。“货币化率下降的原因是暂时性的，并不改变阿里巴巴的业务本质。”
In its earnings statement on Wednesday, Alibaba said that in the quarter that ended June 30, revenue had risen to $3.27 billion. Net income that excluded investment gains, which does not meet generally accepted accounting principles, was $1.5 billion, in alignment with analysts’ expectations.
阿里巴巴在周三的财报中表示，截至于6月30日结束的季度，公司营收已上升到32.7亿美元。扣除了投资收益的净收入为15亿美元，与分析师的预期相符，但一般公认的会计原则所指的净收入中包括投资收益。
Much has changed for Alibaba in the year since its listing. The company appointed a new chief executive, Daniel Zhang; a new president in charge of international expansion, the former Goldman Sachs executive Michael Evans; and has pushed efforts to find growth. It is looking hard at new areas, including brands abroad and attracting new users in China’s less-affluent rural areas.
对阿里巴巴来说，在上市后的一年中出现了许多变化。公司公布了新的任命，包括首席执行官张勇(Daniel Zhang)、以及由高盛前高管迈克尔·埃文斯(Michael Evans)出任负责国际业务的新总裁；公司也在努力寻找新的增长点，在新领域大力寻找机会，包括国外品牌、以及在中国不太富裕的农村地区吸引新的用户。
The company is trying to offset a drop in net profit in recent quarters that largely stems from troubles in the Chinese economy. Alibaba has also experienced a decline in smartphone advertising revenue and a slowing growth rate in the number of Chinese Internet users.
公司正在试图弥补最近几个季度中出现的净利润下降问题，这在很大程度上是中国经济本身的问题造成的。阿里巴巴也面临着智能手机广告收入下降、以及中国互联网用户的数量增长速度放缓等问题。
The hiring of Mr. Evans followed a spree of accords with 20 different global clothing brands, which Alibaba agreed to begin selling on its e-commerce sites. The hope is that the new exposure on Alibaba’s site will connect foreign companies with middle-class and newly wealthy Chinese hungry for the status and quality of foreign products.
埃文斯的雇用是在与20个不同的国际服装品牌商签署了协定之后，阿里巴巴同意在其电子商务网站上开始销售这些品牌的服装。希望通过阿里巴巴网站的销售，外国公司能与渴望国外产品的质量及其所带来的身份象征的中国中产阶层和新富们建立联系。
Alibaba’s push to grow in China’s rural areas was underscored this week when it splashed out $4.6 billion — the most the company has spent to date on a strategic investment — to take a 20 percent stake in the Chinese retailer Suning. Suning has a logistics and retail store network that covers China’s many remote and less-developed areas, where those least likely to shop online live and work.
阿里巴巴本周突出强调了其在中国农村地区推动增长的努力，公司宣布拨出46亿美元的巨资，购买中国零售商苏宁电器20％的股份，这是阿里巴巴迄今为止最大的一笔战略投资。苏宁拥有一个物流和零售网点，覆盖了中国许多偏远及欠发达地区，那里住着的是最不可能在网上购物的人们。
Chi Tsang, an analyst at HSBC, said that although Alibaba’s investment in Suning might alienate other retailers, the combination of Alibaba’s online skills and Suning’s rural presence would be “very powerful.”
汇丰银行分析师曾智表示，虽然阿里巴巴对苏宁的投资可能会令其他零售商不快，但阿里巴巴在线技术与苏宁农村优势的结合会是“非常有力的”。
“I think relative to a year ago, the business has changed,” he said. He added that Alibaba’s share price was low given the success and expansion of its online finance and entertainment affiliates, both of which would most likely provide a hefty lift to the Alibaba Group, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
“我认为，相对于一年前来说，公司的业务已有所改变，”他说。他还说，鉴于阿里巴巴成功地扩大了其网上金融业务、建立了娱乐子公司，公司目前的股价偏低，因为这两方面的业务都有为阿里巴巴集团提供增长机会的很大可能。阿里巴巴集团的股票在纽约证券交易所上市。
He also said that the appointment of Mr. Zhang seemed to have pleased the company’s employees.
曾智还表示，张勇的任命似乎让公司员工满意。