It began as a small Internet upstart in China, but now the Alibaba Group is preparing for a splashy debutante party that will stretch from New York to Hong Kong and back again.
刚开始，阿里巴巴集团只是中国一家小小的互联网初创公司，但它如今却正在为一场盛大的亮相派对做准备。此次活动的范围将从纽约一路延伸到香港，最后再回到美国。
The company, which runs two huge online marketplaces in China, plans to kick off a long-awaited roadshow for potential investors on Monday. It is the start of a formal effort to drum up interest in what could be the biggest stock market debut ever in the United States if Alibaba succeeds in raising its target goal of $21.1 billion.
在中国运营着两家大型网络市场的阿里巴巴计划于周一开始为潜在投资者举行期待已久的路演。这是为了增加对阿里巴巴上市的兴趣而进行的正式努力的开端。如果阿里巴巴能成功完成211亿美元（约合1296亿元人民币）的筹资目标，这就可能会成为美国历史上规模最大的一次IPO。
The whirlwind tour, which will encompass 100 meetings in 10 days, will begin not in Hong Kong but in New York, where shares of the company are expected to begin trading on Sept. 19. Two teams of senior executives, code-named red and orange, will travel with advisers across the United States and then to Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
此次路演将以旋风般的速度进行，准备在10天内召开100次会议，而且会是在纽约而非香港拉开大幕。按照计划，阿里巴巴的股票将于9月19日在纽约开始交易。两支由高管组成的路演队伍分别叫做红队和橙队。他们将与顾问公司一同穿越美国，然后去往欧洲、中东以及亚洲。
The sheer breadth of the trip highlights not only the outsize ambitions of Alibaba executives as they seek to establish their company as a global giant on par with Google and Amazon.com, but also the hunger of investors eager for a piece of the booming business. Even before Alibaba filed for an initial public offering in May, money managers cleared space in their portfolios for shares in the company.
此次路演的规模之大，不仅突显了阿里巴巴高管的雄心勃勃——他们希望能把公司打造成能与谷歌(Google)和亚马逊(Amazon.com)相提并论的国际巨擘——而且还显示了迫切想从这家蓬勃发展的企业中分一杯羹的投资者的巨大胃口。甚至在阿里巴巴5月提出IPO申请之前，投资经理们就在自己的投资组合中为它的股份预留了一定空间。
An amended prospectus on Friday revealed just how big Alibaba will be once it is traded publicly. At the midpoint of its expected price range of $60 to $66 in American depositary shares, the company would be valued at nearly $156 billion. That is not far behind Amazon.com and more than eBay, LinkedIn and Twitter combined.
上周五提交的修订版招股书中透露了一旦阿里巴巴开始公开交易，它的规模将有多大。根据美国存托股份每股60到66美元的定价区间的中间值计算，阿里巴巴的估值将达到近1560亿美元，比亚马逊相差无几，并且一举超过eBay、LinkedIn与Twitter的总和。
Should the company’s initial public offering hit the top end of its price expectations, it will have surpassed the market debuts of Facebook, General Motors and Visa.
如果阿里巴巴的IPO达到定价区间高端，它就将超过Facebook、通用汽车公司(General Motors)和Visa的上市估值。
While poised to become a new behemoth, Alibaba cast itself as a champion of small business in its roadshow materials. In an online video that featured animation and music, Joseph C. Tsai, the executive vice chairman of Alibaba, outlined the company’s plans to make people “meet, work and live at Alibaba.” And in a letter to investors on Friday, Jack Ma, Alibaba’s chairman and co-founder, wrote, “Our proposition is simple: We want to help small businesses grow by solving their problems through Internet technology.”
虽然即将成为新巨头，但阿里巴巴在路演材料中却把自己描述成了小企业的支持者。阿里巴巴董事局执行副主席蔡崇信(Joseph C. Tsai)在一则配有动画和音乐的网络视频中概述了集团的计划：让人们“在阿里巴巴碰面、工作和生活”。上周五，阿里巴巴董事局主席及联合创始人马云(Jack Ma)在给投资者的信中写道，“我们的使命很简单：我们希望通过互联网科技来解决小企业的问题，以帮助它们发展。”
The price range filed on Friday gives investors an important hook for valuing Alibaba. At $66 a share, the company would be trading at around 40 times its earnings for the 12 months through the end of March. That ratio is high compared with the broader stock market. But 40 times is below that of other fast-growing technology companies. Facebook’s shares, for instance, traded at over 80 times its earnings in the 12 months through June.
周五公布的定价区间，给投资者提供了一个对阿里巴巴进行估值的重要线索。如果每股的价格为66美元，阿里巴巴的市值将达到它截至3月末的年收益的40倍左右。与大市相比，这个市盈率颇高，但仍然低于其他一些增长迅速的科技公司。例如，Facebook的股价就超过了截至6月末的每股年收益的80倍。
Alibaba’s profit margins are very strong; the company makes 43 cents of operating profit for every dollar of revenue that it earns. Its earnings are also growing rapidly. As a result, investors may be willing to pay considerably more than 40 times earnings for Alibaba’s stock.
阿里巴巴的利润率非常高，每收入1美元，其营业利润就能达到43美分。公司收益也在迅速增加。所以，投资者可能愿意以远超40倍市盈率的价格来购买阿里巴巴的股票。
“It’s one of the largest e-commerce companies on the planet, and it’s still growing faster than almost any other e-commerce company,” said Sameet Sinha, an analyst at B. Riley & Company.
B. Riley & Company的分析师萨米特·辛哈(Sameet Sinha)说，“它是世界上最大的电子商务公司之一，而且它目前的发展速度几乎比其他任何电商都快。”
If demand seems strong before the offering, investment bankers can increase the price range, as was the case in the Facebook and Twitter offerings. But the bankers may want to underprice the shares somewhat to increase the chance that they may rise sharply on their first day of trading.
如果在IPO之前，需求看起来很强劲，承销投行就可以提高定价，就像Facebook和Twitter上市时那样。不过，这些投行或许希望能在一定程度上压低发行价，从而增加股价在上市当日大幅飙升的可能性。
One element that remains unclear, Mr. Sinha said, is whether investors will be wary of a corporate governance structure that concentrates power in the hands of the company’s partnership, a select group of insiders like Mr. Ma. Already, the company has embarked on an acquisition spree that included an impromptu purchase of a stake in a major Chinese soccer team and a deal for a stake in a Hong Kong film studio that has since disclosed suspicious accounting practices.
辛哈表示，有一个不确定因素是，投资者是否会顾忌阿里巴巴的企业管理结构——权力集中在马云等少数内部的公司合伙人手中。目前，公司已经开始大肆展开收购活动，其中包括临时决定购入中国的一支重要足球队，并入股香港一家影视公司。后来，这家影视公司被曝可能存在账目问题。
Still, the stock sale is expected to generate a bonanza for the small group of investors who are selling shares. The single biggest seller is Yahoo, which is contractually obligated to sell a portion of its holdings, and which would reap some $7.7 billion at the midpoint of the price range.
不过，阿里巴巴上市可能让即将出售股份的一小群投资者大赚一笔。最大的单一卖家是雅虎(Yahoo)。按照合约规定，雅虎必须卖出手中持有的部分阿里巴巴股份。按前述定价区间的中间值计算，雅虎将大赚约77亿美元。
Mr. Ma, who oversaw Alibaba’s rise, will see his net worth skyrocket as well. He will sell only a small portion of his holdings, retaining a stake of nearly 8 percent. At the midpoint of the range, he could gain $803 million in the I.P.O., and his remaining shares would be valued at nearly $12.2 billion.
带领阿里巴巴崛起的马云的净资产也将猛增。他仅会出售一小部分股份，保持近8%的持股比例。按前述定价区间的中间值计算，他将在IPO中获利8.03亿美元，而他保留的股份的估值则接近122亿美元。
His longtime lieutenant Mr. Tsai will also see a huge jump in his net worth as well, despite selling a small portion of his shares. His remaining holdings would be valued at roughly $5 billion.
长期担任马云左膀右臂的蔡崇信尽管会卖掉一小部分股份，但他的净资产也会大幅飙升。他保留的股份的估值约为50亿美元。
What is perhaps most striking is that other than Yahoo, few shareholders are selling many shares at all. That suggests a belief that Alibaba has significant room to grow, something that the company itself has emphasized. Potential investors and analysts have long said that the company, along with rivals like Tencent and the search engine Baidu, represent a coming-of-age of the Chinese Internet industry.
最惊人的或许是，除雅虎外，几乎没有股东会大量出售股份。这表明，他们相信阿里巴巴拥有巨大的增长空间，这也是该公司自己一直强调的一点。长期以来，潜在投资者和分析人士一直认为，阿里巴巴和腾讯等竞争对手，以及搜索引擎百度，代表着中国互联网行业的成熟。
The coming offering is the result of years of work, as Alibaba has reshaped its internal structure and hired advisers to help prepare for the stock sale. This year, Alibaba hired an unheard-of six lead underwriters — Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup — to help plan the undertaking.
即将到来的IPO是多年努力的结果，阿里巴巴调整了内部结构，聘请顾问公司参与筹备上市。今年，阿里巴巴前所未有地聘请了六家主承销商——瑞信(Credit Suisse)、德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)、高盛(Goldman Sachs)、摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)、 摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)和花旗集团(Citigroup)——协助筹划上市事宜。
Each bank team, led by senior deal makers, focused on several major tasks. Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley, for instance, worked on the prospectus and will supervise the “lockup” period after which current investors can sell shares, while JPMorgan worked on the company’s valuation and offering structure.
由高级交易撮合人率队的各投行团队各自专注于几项重大任务。比如，瑞信和摩根斯坦利撰写了招股书，并将监督锁定期。过了锁定期后，目前的投资者才能出售股份。而摩根大通负责的则是阿里巴巴的定价和发行结构。
Goldman was awarded the role of stabilization agent, meaning it is responsible for making sure that the early trading after the I.P.O. goes well.
高盛获得了“稳定市场经理人”的角色。也就是说，它将负责确保IPO过后的早期交易顺利进行。
For the banks, the chief incentive driving them is the prestige of helping shepherd one of the biggest initial offerings in history, rather than profits. The banks are expected to share in an underwriting fee of about 1 percent, according to people with knowledge of the matter, or just over $200 million if the stock sale prices at the high end. All but one lead underwriter would reap about $31 million.
对这些投行而言，推动它们的主要动机是为史上规模最大的IPO之一保驾护航带来的声望，而非利润。据知情人士称，这些投行预计合起来会获得大约1%的佣金。若以定价区间的高端计算，为略高于2亿美元。除其中一家外，其余的主承销商均会得到大约3100万美元。
The breadth and rigorousness of those preparations will be put to the test next week, when Alibaba finally begins its road show in Manhattan. Early on Monday, executives will brief salespeople from the main underwriters on how to best pitch the company to their clients, before decamping for the first of a dizzying series of meetings. Then executives will gather for what is expected to be a standing-room-only lunch at the Waldorf-Astoria in Midtown Manhattan.
这周，阿里巴巴终于将在曼哈顿启动路演。届时，这些筹备工作的广度和严谨程度都将接受考验。周一，阿里巴巴的高管将首先向来自主承销商的销售人员简单介绍如何最好地向客户推销该公司，随后迅速转战第一场路演，从而拉开一系列令人眼花缭乱的会议的大幕。然后，高管们将聚集在曼哈顿中城的华道夫-阿斯多里亚酒店(Waldorf-Astoria)出席午宴。现场预计将人山人海。
At various points, the executives will split into the orange and red teams, named after Alibaba’s primary corporate colors, according to people with direct knowledge of the schedule. The orange team will be led by Mr. Tsai, the vice chairman, and Jonathan Lu, the chief executive; the red team will include Maggie Wu, the company’s chief financial officer, and Daniel Zhang, its chief operating officer. Mr. Ma is expected to appear at a few meetings. In New York, executives will be meeting with money management giants like BlackRock and Oppenheimer.
对安排有第一手了解的人士称，在多个时间点上，这些高管会被分成橙、红两队。橙色和红色是阿里巴巴主要的企业颜色。橙队将由集团执行副主席蔡崇信和首席执行官陆兆禧(Jonathan Lu)带队，红队则由首席财务官武卫(Maggie Wu)和首席运营官张勇(Daniel Zhang)率领。马云预计会在部分路演中现身。在纽约，高管们将与贝莱德(BlackRock)和奥本海默(Oppenheimer)等资本管理业巨头会面。