HONG KONG — Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce behemoth, reported on Tuesday a jump in profit in its first earnings announcement since its initial public offering in September.
香港——中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴周二公布了自从9月份首次公开发行股票以来的第一份财务报告，报告显示其利润大幅增长。
Shrugging off a slowdown in the Chinese economy, Alibaba’s profit grew 16 percent from the same period a year earlier as the company’s sites benefited from the growing number of Chinese turning to the Internet to shop.
中国经济放缓并没有影响阿里巴巴，越来越多的中国人转向网上商店购物让公司受益，其利润与上年同期相比增长了16％。
Shares in the company, China’s largest e-commerce retailer by transactions, have risen about 50 percent since it raised nearly $21.8 billion in the highly anticipated initial stock sale.
公司的股票价格自首次公开发行以来已上涨了约50%，按交易量算，阿里巴巴是中国最大的电子商务零售商，其高度期待的首次售股募集到将近218亿美元（约合1333亿元人民币）的资金。
In a sign of the growing power of Chinese Internet companies, the listing surpassed the offering of Facebook, the American social media giant. Now with a market value of almost $250 billion, Alibaba is worth more than Facebook.
作为中国互联网公司日益强大的标志，阿里巴巴上市时就超过了美国社交媒体巨头Facebook的上市市值。目前，阿里巴巴的市值已接近2500亿美元，高于Facebook的市值。
Alibaba’s growth is likely to continue at a strong clip, according to the Jefferies analyst Cynthia Meng, who believes that it will count half of China’s 1.3 billion people as customers over the next decade, up from less than a quarter now. A huge increase in the number of Chinese shopping online will help Alibaba overcome a slowdown in the growth of Chinese Internet users and moderating economic expansion, Ms. Meng said.
据杰富瑞(Jefferies)分析师孟欣亚(Cynthia Meng)的看法，阿里巴巴很可能将继续快速增长，她相信，阿里巴巴的客户数在未来十年中将会达到中国13亿人口的一半，目前其客户数不到全国人口的四分之一。孟欣亚表示，中国网上购物人数的大幅增长将有助于阿里巴巴克服中国互联网用户数增长放缓、以及经济增长放缓的趋势。
“Among China’s Internet subsectors, we see e-commerce as the most favorable sector (followed by mobile games, and online travel) benefiting from the shift in Internet user demographics” toward users older than 30 with more spending power, Ms. Meng wrote in a recent report.
孟欣亚在最近的一份报告中写道，“在中国互联网的各个子行业中，我们最看好电子商务行业（其次是手机游戏和在线旅游服务），电子商务将受益于互联网用户的人口分布”转向30岁以上用户群的趋势，这些用户有更大的购买力。
Alibaba said that in the quarter ended Sept. 30, its net profit jumped to $1.1 billion, roughly in line with the $1.16 billion estimated by 22 analysts polled by Reuters. Alibaba’s revenue rose 54 percent to $2.7 billion, better than the $2.6 billion estimate of 27 analysts polled by Reuters. The company’s shares rose 2.3 percent in premarket trading on the results.
阿里巴巴称，在截至9月30日的第三季度中，其净利润跃升到11亿美元，与路透社(Reuters)抽查的22位分析师估计的11.6亿美元大致相符。阿里巴巴的营收总额增长了54％，达到27亿美元，高于路透社询问的27分析师所预期的26亿美元。这些结果让公司的股价在开盘前交易中上涨了2.3%。
The twin drivers of Alibaba’s growth are its Taobao Marketplace and Tmall sites. Taobao, which facilitates the sale of goods from small merchants to consumers, is currently larger than Tmall, but analysts expect Tmall to eventually eclipse it as Chinese consumers become wealthier and buy products from larger brands. On Tmall, larger companies and multinationals set up their own stores to sell to the huge number of consumers who visit the site.
驱动阿里巴巴增长的两驾马车是它的淘宝商城和天猫网站。帮助小商家向消费者出售商品的淘宝目前比天猫大，但分析人士预计，天猫最终会超过淘宝，随着中国消费者变得更富有，他们会更多地购买大品牌产品。大公司和跨国公司在天猫建立自己的专卖店，向访问网站的数量庞大的消费者销售产品。
Chinese are also increasingly using smartphones to access the Internet in place of computers, and some analysts have worried about Alibaba’s ability to continue to attract users. Though Alibaba has a number of standout smartphone applications, in mobile, it remains in the shadow of its rival Tencent, which runs a hugely popular messaging and social networking application called WeChat. Tencent has been striving to make use of the app to sell goods to consumers and has a partnership with Alibaba’s closest e-commerce competitor in China, JD.com.
中国人也越来越多地用智能手机取代计算机来访问互联网，因此有些分析人士对阿里巴巴继续吸引用户的能力表示担心。虽然阿里巴巴有一些出色的智能手机应用，但在移动网络方面，它仍远不及竞争对手腾讯，腾讯经营的微信非常受欢迎，微信是一个通讯和社交网络应用。腾讯一直想方设法通过微信向消费者销售商品，并与阿里巴巴在中国的最大电子商务竞争对手京东(JD.com)合作。
Analysts have been cheered by the quick growth in the percentage of Alibaba’s transactions carried out on smartphones, though the company’s smartphone presence will continue to be watched closely.
分析师对阿里巴巴通过智能手机实现的交易量的百分比快速增长表示欢迎，但他们仍将继续密切关注公司在智能手机应用上的表现。