About 15 years ago, Jack Ma traveled to Silicon Valley to raise a few million dollars for his newborn company, the Alibaba Group. Few at the time showed any willingness to hand over the cash.
大约15年前，马云曾来到硅谷，为他的新公司阿里巴巴集团筹措几百万美元的资金。当时，几乎没人愿意把钱投给他。
On Monday, Mr. Ma, the company’s executive chairman and co-founder, told a crowd of more than 800 potential investors gathered for the first big marketing pitch for Alibaba’s initial public offering, that he was back to ask for a little more money.
周一，作为阿里巴巴集团董事局主席兼联合创始人，马云对前来参加公司首次公开募股(IPO)的第一场大型宣传活动的逾800名潜在投资者说，他回来了，而且还要再多筹点。
Monday represented the start of a global roadshow for the Chinese e-commerce giant, which is seeking to raise more than $21 billion in its initial public offering, a stock sale that could break size records. And it represented the first test of whether investors thought that the company held the promise of enormous growth.
周一是这家中国电子商务巨头全球路演的第一天。该公司正寻求通过IPO募集超过210亿美元（约1200亿元人民币）的资金，其股票销售规模或将打破多项记录。此外，今天还将首次试探出，投资者是否认为这家公司拥有无限的增长潜力。
The day formally began at 6 a.m., when Alibaba executives met with the combined sales teams from its six lead underwriters for a teach-in. Held at Citigroup’s investment banking headquarters in downtown Manhattan, the discussion focused on teaching the sales staff about the company and how to best pitch it to potential investors.
当天的活动从早上六点正式开始，阿里巴巴的高管们与六家主承销商的联合销售团队会面，双方在曼哈顿闹市区的花旗集团(Citigroup)投资银行业务总部举行了讨论会，其主要内容是让销售人员了解这家公司，并懂得如何更好地向潜在投资者推介它。
But the highlight was the lunch presentation, held on the 18th floor of the Waldorf-Astoria in Midtown Manhattan.Starting midmorning, investors lined up for a half-hour or more simply to take the elevator up to the registration desk. At least one potential buyer criticized the setup — completed last week when company executives finally selected the location — which left a long line of people snaking across the cavernous Waldorf lobby and out the door.
当天的重头戏则是在曼哈顿中城的华道夫-阿斯多里亚酒店(Waldorf-Astoria)18层举行的午餐推介会。从上午10时左右开始，为了乘电梯到签到台，投资者们至少排队等了半小时。至少一名潜在投资者抱怨了会场布置——这是在上周公司高管终于选定地点之后完成的——导致等候的长队从酒店宽敞的大厅一直延伸到了门外。
Boldface Wall Street names were in attendance. Mario Gabelli, the longtime stock picker, sat in the main hall. Steven Rattner, the former investment banker who now manages the personal fortune of Michael R. Bloomberg, took a seat in one of two overflow rooms that filled to capacity.
多位华尔街重量级人物到场。资深选股人马里奥·盖博利(Mario Gabelli)坐在主厅。目前管理着迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)个人财产的前投资银行家史蒂文·拉特纳(Steven Rattner)坐在了两间人满为患的分会议室中的一间。
And senior deal makers from underwriters like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase made the rounds, as did J. Michael Evans, a former Goldman vice chairman who sits on Alibaba’s board.
来自高盛(Goldman Sachs)和摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)等承销商的资深银行家在人群中穿梭着，前高盛副董事长、阿里巴巴董事迈克尔·埃文斯(Michael Evans)也在四处走动。
The lunch finally began around 1 p.m., about a half-hour after it was scheduled to begin, with a prepared video that Alibaba had already published on the website RetailRoadShow.com. The chief executive of Credit Suisse, Brady Dougan, then introduced Mr. Ma before turning moderation duties over to Imran Khan, the firm’s head of global Internet investment banking and one of the main I.P.O. advisers.
午餐在下午一点左右终于开始了，比预定时间推迟了约半小时，开场是一段事先准备好的视频。这段视频已由阿里巴巴发布在RetailRoadShow.com网站上。随后，瑞信(Credit Suisse)的首席执行官布雷迪·杜根(Brady Dougan)请马云出场，并向大家介绍了他，之后把主持的工作交给了伊姆兰·卡恩(Imran Khan)，瑞信全球互联网投行业务的负责人、这次IPO的主要顾问之一。
Though several members of the management team were on stage, including the executive vice chairman Joseph C. Tsai and the chief financial officer Maggie Wu, Mr. Ma — clad in a blazer and collared shirt with no tie — emerged as the dominant personality. He did not disappoint expectations, according to people who watched the presentation, telling jokes about a Harvard case study that continually predicted Alibaba’s impending demise while other competitors triumphed. (All those rivals have since folded, Mr. Ma noted.)
管理团队的几名成员登台亮相，其中包括执行副总裁蔡崇信和首席财务官武卫(Maggie Wu)，但马云才是台上的主角。他穿着一件西装外套，里面是衬衫，但没有打领带。观看了推介展示的人们说，马云没有辜负人们的期待。他讲了一些笑话，其中提到了哈佛大学的一项案例研究，它一直预测，阿里巴巴离失败不远了，而其竞争对手最终将获得成功。（马云指出，所有的这些对手此后都纷纷关张倒闭。）
When asked about competitors, Mr. Ma joked that such thinking was the job of a vice president. He, on the other hand, was preoccupied with how to make the company endure for over a century.The questions revolved largely around understanding Alibaba’s business model. Topics of the queries included the many deals that the company has struck this year, including those for a stake in a Chinese soccer team and a movie studio that has since unearthed accounting issues; the e-commerce operator’s notoriously opaque corporate governance; and whether the business will continue to grow at its phenomenal speed.
在被问到有关竞争对手的问题时，马云开玩笑说，这是副总需要思考的问题。而他最关心的，是如何让公司屹立百年。提问基本上围绕着对阿里巴巴商业模式的理解。其中涉及的话题包括，阿里巴巴今年达成的许多交易，比如对一支中国足球队以及一家电影公司的投资，后者此后爆出了会计问题；这家电子商务运营商在企业治理方面出了名的不透明问题；以及这家企业能否继续以惊人速度增长。
“They were very smart about trying to take head-on some of the questions they knew were coming,” said one attendee. “They pre-empted a lot of them, but with canned answers.”
“他们非常聪明，知道有些问题肯定会出现，并试图主动面对这些问题，”一名出席者说，“他们在很多问题出现之前就做出了相应解释，但答案都是事先准备好的。”
Later in the presentation, however, Mr. Ma unexpectedly took questions directly from the audience.
不过，在推介活动的尾声，马云出人意料地直接回答了观众的提问。