HONG KONG — Alibaba Group of China said that its profit doubled and that its sales rose by nearly a third in its latest quarter in a potentially positive sign for consumer strength in its home country.
香港——中国的阿里巴巴集团表示，其利润在最近一个季度里翻了一番，销售额增长近三分之一，这是一个有关国内消费能力的潜在积极信号。
The company, which runs e-commerce platforms in China, is seen as a barometer of consumer sentiment there. Chinese leaders and investors alike are counting on consumers to help pick up the slack from China’s slowing industrial base.
在中国经营电子商务平台的阿里巴巴被视为消费者信心的晴雨表。中国领导人和投资者都在指望消费者帮助接手中国工业发展放缓的残局。
Bolstered by growth in online shopping at the expense of retail in physical stores, Alibaba said on Thursday that sales rose 32 percent in the quarter ended in December from the same period a year earlier, to 34.5 billion renminbi, or about $5.3 billion. Profit totaled 12.46 billion renminbi.
以实体零售店为代价的网上购物的增长对阿里巴巴有很大帮助，该公司周四表示，在去年12月结束的一个季度里，销售额与上年同期相比增长了32％，达到345亿人民币，约合53亿美元。利润总额为124.6亿人民币。
The results beat expectations, and the company’s shares rose 4 percent in premarket trading.
这样的结果打破预期，阿里巴巴的股票在盘前交易中上涨了4％。
Beijing is hoping that consumer spending on sites like Alibaba’s will counterbalance the slowdown in other parts of the economy. Some investors are skeptical, believing that the decline will eventually leak into consumer sentiment and hit companies like Alibaba.
北京希望，消费者在诸如阿里巴巴网站上的支出将抵消经济其他部分的放缓。一些投资者对此表示怀疑，认为经济放缓最终将影响消费者信心，从而累及阿里巴巴这样的公司。
As a giant company listed in the United States with heavy exposure to China’s consumption, Alibaba finds itself at the center of this dispute. Investors who are bearish on the Chinese economy sell its shares or even bet against them with what are known as short positions, analysts say.
作为在美国上市的主要针对中国消费者的巨型公司，阿里巴巴发现自己处在这一争议的中心。分析人士说，唱衰中国经济的投资者出售其所持的阿里巴巴股票，甚至以卖空的方式打赌公司股价将走低。
“If you’re sitting in Boston or New York and you want to trade China, the most liquid proxies are Alibaba and Baidu,” said Chi Tsang, an analyst at HSBC.
“如果你人在波士顿或纽约，但想从事中国股票交易的话，最具流动性的替代就是阿里巴巴和百度，”汇丰银行(HSBC)分析师曾智(Chi Tsang)说。
Investors have punished the company. So far this year the company’s shares are down about 14 percent.
投资者已经在惩罚阿里巴巴。今年以来，该公司的股价已下跌了约14％。