The two big stock exchanges in the United States are ready to fight for the right to host the initial public offering of the Alibaba Group, the Chinese Internet giant.
美国两大证券交易所做好了争夺中国互联网巨头阿里巴巴集团首次公开募股(IPO)的准备。
Both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq stock market have confirmed to Alibaba that they would accept what the company calls a partnership governance structure, in which a group of its founders and top executives would nominate a majority of board members, a spokesman for the Chinese concern said on Monday.
这家中国公司的一名发言人于周一表示，纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)和纳斯达克交易所(Nasdaq)都已向阿里巴巴确认，它们会接受该公司所说的合伙人管理架构，根据该架构，公司的几位创始人和高管将提名董事会的多数成员。
The announcement signals that Nasdaq is still in the race to land the offering, which is expected to value Alibaba at more than $75 billion. It would be the biggest I.P.O. since Facebook‘s market debut last year.
此次公布的消息表明，纳斯达克依然在角逐阿里巴巴的IPO，此次IPO有望给予阿里巴巴超过750亿美元（约合4571亿元人民币）的估值。这将是自Facebook去年上市以来，规模最大的IPO。
That may come as some consolation for Nasdaq, which lost the competition for Twitter‘s initial offering. Investors and deal makers have speculated that several technical problems – including glitches that hampered Facebook’s offering and system issues that led to a so-called “flash freeze” earlier this year – would affect the exchange’s ability to compete for big-ticket deals.
这可能给纳斯达克带来些许安慰，这家交易所曾在争取Twitter的IPO时落败。但投资者和交易撮合者揣测，几项技术问题会影响纳斯达克争夺巨额IPO的能力，其中就包括妨碍Facebook股票上市交易的技术故障，以及今年早些时候导致纳斯达克交易暂停(flash freeze)的系统问题。
The Alibaba spokesman said the company still had not hired underwriters, selected a listing exchange or set a timetable on the offering. But people briefed on the matter have previously suggested that an I.P.O. would probably come next year.
阿里巴巴的发言人表示，公司尚未聘请承销商，尚未选定上市交易所，也尚未确定上市时间表。不过，了解情况的人士此前曾表示，IPO可能会在明年进行。
The confirmations from both N.Y.S.E. and Nasdaq are unsurprising. Alibaba has been planning to list in the United States after its preferred platform, the Hong Kong stock exchange, refused to accept the partnership structure, which critics have said disenfranchises common shareholders.
纽交所和纳斯达克的确认在意料之中。阿里巴巴青睐的交易平台香港交易所此前表示不愿接受其合伙人架构，在那以后该公司就一直计划着到美国上市。批评者表示，这种架构损害了普通股东的权益。
Alibaba executives, including the co-founder Joe Tsai, in a blog post last month, have said that the model is meant to preserve the company’s corporate culture and does not create a de facto dual class system. The company has brought out a number of supportive statements from allies like Yahoo and SoftBank as well.
阿里巴巴的高管则称，这种模式旨在维护公司的企业文化，不会创造出事实上的两级结构。上个月，该公司的联合创始人蔡崇信(Joe Tsai)在一篇博客文章中也提到了这一点。雅虎(Yahoo)和软银(SoftBank)等盟友发出了一些声明，对该公司表示支持。