HONG KONG — Alibaba, the Chinese Internet company whose potential initial public offering is one of the most fervently awaited in the world, has fired back at Hong Kong’s exchange, saying its stance on Alibaba’s unusual management structure puts the exchange at risk of being overtaken by the rest of the world.
香港——中国互联网公司阿里巴巴向香港交易所发出回击，称港交所对阿里巴巴不同寻常的管理层结构的态度，让其面临被世界上其他交易所超过的危险。阿里巴巴可能进行的首次公开募股是世界上最受人期待的一次。
This week, Alibaba abandoned plans to list in Hong Kong after the exchange declined to change rules that discourage companies from organizing in a way that favors dual-class shareholding over individual shareholdings or gives one shareholder a disproportionate say over how a company is run.
在香港交易所拒绝改变规定后，阿里巴巴这周放弃了在香港上市的计划。港交所阻止公司偏重双重股权而不是个人股权的形式，或是赋予一个股东对公司运营有巨大发言权的形式。
Alibaba, which is run by a 28-member partner committee, insisted that it be allowed to continue to nominate a majority of its board of directors. It is now moving forward with plans to list in New York, a person close to the Chinese company has said.
阿里巴巴的管理层是一个由28位合伙人组成的董事会，该公司坚持要求保留其提名超过半数董事会成员的权利。一名与这家中国公司关系密切的人士说，阿里巴巴现在正开始推进去纽约上市的计划。
In a blog post published late Thursday, Joe Tsai, a co-founder and executive vice chairman of Alibaba, vigorously defended the structure, saying that its lack of hierarchy and bureaucracy was key to preserving the company’s success and innovation.
阿里巴巴联合创始人兼执行副主席蔡崇信周四晚在一篇署名博客中极力捍卫了这种结构，称其没有等级和官僚的结构是保持公司成功和创新的关键。
“Our governance structure is a creative way to address the core issues that matter to shareholders while staying true to who we are — which we cannot, and will not, change,” Mr. Tsai wrote.
蔡崇信写道，“合伙人制是一种创造性的方式，它在保证股东核心利益的同时，能让我们坚持自身的信念 ——这一点我们不能，也不会改变。”
“We understand Hong Kong may not want to change its tradition for one company,” Mr. Tsai continued. “But we firmly believe that Hong Kong must consider what is needed in order to adapt to future trends and changes. The question Hong Kong must address is whether it is ready to look forward as the rest of the world passes it by.”
他还写道，“我们没有期望香港监管机构为了阿里巴巴一家公司做出改变，但我们确信香港应该认真探讨适合未来发展趋势的创新监管环境。我想问的是：香港资本市场的监管，是被急速变化的世界抛在身后，还是应该为香港资本市场的未来做出改变，迅速创新？！！”
Charles Li, the chief executive of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, has defended the stock market operator’s stance, saying it is in the broader public interest of Hong Kong.
香港交易所(Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing)首席执行官李小加(Charles Li)为其证券交易所运营者的态度辩护，称那是为了香港更大的公众利益。
But some bankers say Alibaba’s decision to spurn Hong Kong is a major setback for the Asian financial center, which was the world’s biggest market for new share offerings from 2009 to 2011, but has seen a sharp drop in deal offerings since then.
但是一些银行家说，阿里巴巴抛弃香港的决定，是对这个亚洲金融中心的一大打击，在2009年到2011年间，港交所一直是世界上最大的新股发售市场，但从2011年起，其新股发售交易数大幅下降。
With a profit of $668.7 million in the first quarter, and a commanding share of China’s rapidly growing e-commerce market, Alibaba’s I.P.O. could raise as much as $15 billion, making it one of the biggest and most highly anticipated debuts since Facebook raised $16 billion in May 2012.
阿里巴巴第一季度的利润为6.687亿美元（约合40.9亿元人民币），它在中国快速增长的电子商务市场中占据着制高点，该公司的首次公开募股可能会融资150亿美元，这将使其成为自Facebook上市以来的最大一笔、最令人期待的首次公开募股。Facebook在2012年5月的首次公开募股中融资160亿美元。