The Alibaba Group opened its books on Tuesday, revealing a company raking in extraordinary profits from its vast online marketplaces in China.
阿里巴巴集团在本周二打开了自己的账本，其业绩显示，这家公司从中国巨大的互联网市场中攫取了惊人的财富。
But despite a parade of impressive headline numbers, investors may find themselves struggling to see how real its earnings are.
然而，除了一连串令人咋舌的总数之外，投资者也许会发现，他们怎么也弄不清，阿里巴巴的收入额到底有几分真实性。
The company’s financial statements were released as part of its United States initial public offering, which is expected to take place in the coming months. The big numbers Alibaba has put up will probably excite many on Wall Street. The company says, for instance, that goods worth $248 billion were sold on its marketplaces in 2013, an amount more than that of Amazon and eBay combined. And Alibaba’s revenue grew 57 percent in the first nine months of its 2013 fiscal year. That pace is faster than at Facebook, currently one of America’s most successful technology companies.
作为到美国首次公开募股(IPO)的工作之一，公司公布了财务报表，本次IPO有望在下个月进行。阿里巴巴提交的巨额数字也许会让许多华尔街人士兴奋不已。例如，阿里巴巴披露，2013年，该公司旗下的卖场售出了价值2480亿美元（约合1.5万亿元人民币）的商品，比亚马逊(Amazon)和eBay合在一起的销售额还要高。在2013财年的前九个月里，阿里巴巴的营收增长了57%。其增速比Facebook还快，后者是美国最成功的科技公司之一。
Perhaps more important, Alibaba’s profit margins — which measure how much money the company gets to keep after paying its costs — will generate envy across Silicon Valley. The strong figures are encouraging some stock analysts to value the company north of $200 billion, which would be higher than IBM’s current stock market capitalization.
也许更重要的是，阿里巴巴的利润率——用于衡量公司扣除成本后的盈利——让整个硅谷(Silicon Valley)羡慕不已。强劲的数字正促使一些股票分析师把该公司的估值定在2000亿美元，而这比IBM目前的股市估值总额还要高。
To put their own price on Alibaba, investors will most likely try to compare it against other technology companies. That may be difficult. While Alibaba shares characteristics of some well-known tech names, it is, over all, quite unlike any of them.
要想估算阿里巴巴的价值，投资人最可能干的就是设法把它和其他科技公司进行比较。这也许相当困难。虽然阿里巴巴具有某些知名科技企业的特性，然而总的来说，它和它们当中的任何一家都不一样。
Like Amazon, Alibaba dominates its home e-commerce market. But, unlike Amazon, it does not amass large amounts of inventory. Instead, like eBay, it merely matches buyers and sellers. In some ways, though, Alibaba resembles Google. Alibaba gets a very large share of its revenue from sellers who pay for more prominent placement on the marketplaces. That income stream is akin to Google’s ad revenue. But the company did not say exactly how much revenue came from that source.
和亚马逊一样，阿里巴巴统治着本国的电子商务市场。然而，和亚马逊不一样的是，它并未积累大量库存。与此相反，它和eBay一样，只给买卖双方牵线搭桥。在某些方面，阿里巴巴和谷歌(Google)具有相似之处。阿里巴巴从卖家那里获得很大部分的收益，后者为在卖场中获得更显眼的位置而付费。这股收入流和谷歌的广告收入类似。不过，阿里巴巴没有确切表示，有多少营收源自这里。
Alibaba is growing faster than eBay, Facebook and Google. Its revenue surged 57 percent in the first nine months of its 2013 fiscal year.
阿里巴巴比eBay、Facebook和Google发展得更快。在2013财年的前九个月里，该公司的营收大幅增长了57%。
Compared with those American companies, Alibaba has far less revenue. But what excites investors is how much profit it earns. Alibaba’s operating profits in those first nine months totaled $3.1 billion, which was equivalent to 48 percent of revenue — a margin that is far higher than at Google, eBay and Amazon. Its operating margins are also better than those at other public Chinese Internet firms, including Baidu, a search engine, and Tencent, which is pre-eminent in messaging and gaming.
和那些美国公司相比，阿里巴巴的营收要小得多。然而让投资者兴奋的是它挣到了多少利润。阿里巴巴在2013财年前九个月的营业利润总额为31亿美元，相当于其营收的48%——其利润率要远远高于谷歌、eBay和亚马逊。其营业利润率也优于其他上市的中国互联网公司，包括搜索引擎公司百度和在即时通讯及游戏领域独领风骚的腾讯。
“In the last year or so, they seem to have pulled ahead of Tencent and Baidu,” said Brendan Ahern of KraneShares, which manages an exchange-traded fund that focuses on Chinese Internet stocks.
“就在差不多去年的时间里，他们似乎和腾讯与百度拉开了距离，”金瑞基金(KraneShares)的布伦丹·埃亨(Brendan Ahern)说，该公司管理着一只专注于中国互联网股票的上市交易基金。
Still, investors seeking to fully understand Alibaba may feel shortchanged by Tuesday’s filing.
不过，依然在设法全面了解阿里巴巴的投资人可能会感觉，公司周二提交的文件不能让人消除疑虑。
For one, the company did not provide crucial numbers that would allow outsiders to better gauge the performance of the two online marketplaces that generate nearly all of its revenue.
一个原因是，阿里巴巴没有提供某些关键的数字，而它们才能让外人更好地判断为该公司挣得几乎所有收益的两家网上卖场的表现。
Some investors crave such numbers because they want to see whether Alibaba’s stellar profits growth can continue. Recent history shows that even the most successful Internet companies can be tripped up by abrupt shifts in consumer tastes and changes in technology.
一些投资人渴望获得此类数据，因为他们想了解阿里巴巴极高的利润增长状态能否为继。近些年的历史显示，即使是最成功的互联网公司，都会被消费者品味的突然转变和科技的变化给绊倒。
“People want to know what the breakdown is across the various units,” Mr. Ahern said. “Hopefully, as we get closer to the I.P.O., we might see some unbundling.”
埃亨说，“人们想了解各个部门的业绩明细。随着我们接近IPO的日期，希望我们能看到一些分得更细的数字。”
Alibaba makes most of its money from two major websites that dominate e-commerce in China. Taobao is a hectic-looking online bazaar where consumers can buy almost anything, from fresh groceries to building supplies to pets to concert tickets. The other is Tmall, a more streamlined marketplace where well-known brands are sold.
阿里巴巴的大部分收入来自旗下两个主要的网站，它们主宰着中国的电子商务市场。淘宝是一个看似嘈杂纷乱的网上集市，消费者几乎可以在这里买到任何东西，从新鲜的食品、建筑材料到宠物、再到音乐会门票，应有尽有。另一个卖场是天猫商城，这是一个更有序的卖场，销售的是名牌商品。
But the filing did not break out revenue or earnings for each marketplace. If growth at one of the two sites starts to slow down, for instance, outsiders might not be able to spot that trend for some time. Instead, Alibaba has combined revenue for both websites under a line called “China commerce retail business.” That revenue stream was $5.4 billion in the first nine months its 2013 fiscal year, which was more than 60 percent higher than in the same period of 2012. The Chinese retail revenue accounted for 83 percent of the firm’s total revenue of $6.5 billion in the period. Alibaba did not break out costs or earnings for the segment.
但是在提交的报表中，阿里巴巴没有分别给出这两个交易市场各自的营业额或净收入。比如说，如果这两个网站之一的增长开始放缓的话，外界人士也许在相当时间内不会发现这一趋势。阿里巴巴只是将这两个网站的总营业额放在所谓的“中国商务零售业务”项下。该项收入在2013财政年的前9个月中为54亿美元，比2012年同期高出60%以上。中国零售业务的营收占阿里巴巴公司同期的65亿美元总营业额的83%。阿里巴巴没有给出这部分业务的成本或净收入。
The Chinese company has gone to some lengths to explain its mobile business. Investors want to see evidence that the company can still post strong profit growth as consumers increase their use of mobile devices for shopping. Alibaba said that in the last three months of 2013, 19.7 percent of “gross merchandise value,” or the value of goods sold on its sites, came from mobile users. That is a sizable increase from 7.4 percent at the end of 2012. Alibaba, however, did not break out details for revenue from mobile. Other large e-commerce firms also do not break out such figures, but Facebook does disclose how much of its advertising revenue comes from mobile.
阿里巴巴花大篇幅解释了其移动业务。投资者希望看到有证据表明，随着消费者越来越多地用移动设备购物，阿里巴巴能仍保持强大的利润增长。阿里巴巴说，2013年最后3个月中，“商品总价值”、也就是在其网站上售出的商品价值总和的19.7%是通过移动用户实现的。这相对于2012年底的7.4%来说是很大的增长。但是，阿里巴巴没有给出其移动业务营收的细节。虽然其他大型电子商务公司也没有公布这类数据，但是Facebook的确公布了其移动业务的广告营业额是多少。
The big question hanging over Alibaba’s I.P.O. is whether it can protect its profits. Sometimes, such high levels of profitability can signal that a company has advantages that may fade and expose it to competition.
阿里巴巴IPO中的一个最大的问题是，它能否保持自己的利润。这样高的利润率有时候可能意味着这家公司具有的优势也许要消失，让公司面临竞争。
Alibaba’s supporters, however, say that the firm is fiercely competitive — and has gone to great efforts to keep rivals at bay.
但是，阿里巴巴的支持者称，这家公司具有很强的竞争力，并且不惜余力地抑制竞争对手。
The company has also taken brash steps to defend its revenue that, for now at least, seem to be paying off. The company, for instance, does not allow Baidu, the search engine, to search its marketplaces. As a result, consumers go straight to Alibaba’s sites to perform their shopping searches. This deprives Baidu of a form of ad revenue that Google has long earned when consumers click through to sellers from its search engine. Instead, Alibaba gets the search revenue.
阿里巴巴还为保持其营业额采取了一些盛气凌人的措施，至少在现在，这些措施似乎是成功的。比如，该公司不允许搜索引擎公司百度检索其交易市场。这让百度无法得到那种谷歌长期以来享有的广告收入，谷歌靠消费者通过其搜索引擎点击进入卖家商店挣取广告收入。阿里巴巴则自己挣这笔搜索营业额。
As savvy as the Baidu ban looks now, it may become a source of concern. As the number of listings on Alibaba grows, it will need to ensure it attracts a steady flow of traffic to its sites. To do that, it may need the help of outside sites, like Baidu. If that were to happen, it might become less profitable as it is forced to share revenue with other firms.
虽然不允许百度搜索的措施现在看上去很精明，但这可能会成为让人们担心的一个原因。随着阿里巴巴商户数量的增加，公司需要确保其网站能吸引到源源不断的点击量。为了做到这一点，它可能需要借助于类似百度这样的外部网站。如果真要这样做的话，阿里巴巴的利润就可能会下降，因为它需要与其他公司分享营业额。
But Alibaba’s public offering document only makes one mention of Baidu.
但是阿里巴巴的公开招股材料中只提到百度一次。
Analysts who are bullish on Alibaba say it makes sense to value it in line with Baidu or Tencent. Those firms have stock market values around 30 times the earnings analysts expect for next year. Applying that multiple to Alibaba’s 2013 calendar-year earnings of $3.6 billion would value the company at $108 billion, well below the $200 billion some analysts think is possible. To get to the higher number, they use estimates of future earnings, which they expect to be much higher as Alibaba increases its presence in China, where e-commerce activity is below that of Western countries.
看好阿里巴巴的分析人士说，用与百度或腾讯的股市市值相一致的方式对阿里巴巴估值是合理的。百度或腾讯的股市市值是分析人士预期的明年净收入的30倍左右。用同样的倍数去乘阿里巴巴在2013这个日历年的36亿美元净收入，会得出其估值为1080亿美元，这比一些分析人士认为可能的2000亿美元要低得多。那些分析人士之所以得出更高的估值，是因为他们用了对未来收入的估计，他们预期，随着阿里巴巴在中国越来越强大，这家公司的未来净收入会更高，因为中国的电子商务活动现在还没有达到西方的水平。