Since it first filed to go public two months ago, the Alibaba Group appeared to face few obstacles in its quest to go public.
首次提交上市申请的两个月后，阿里巴巴集团的上市之路似乎遇到了新的阻碍。
But Alibaba, the Chinese Internet giant, has decided that it is not worth sprinting toward its long-awaited initial public offering ahead of the unofficial late-summer market slowdown.
但这家中国互联网巨头已经认定，不值得去赶在夏末市场自发放缓之前匆忙完成这次等待已久的上市。
The company will instead price its offering sometime after Labor Day, people with knowledge of the matter said on Thursday.
知情者周四说，阿里巴巴将在美国劳动节之后的某个时间为股票定价。
The move came as little surprise. But it means that investors eager to buy a piece of Alibaba will have to wait another month.
这有点令人意外。但它意味着，急于购买阿里巴巴股票的投资者将需要再等一个月了。
A representative for Alibaba declined to comment.
阿里巴巴的一名代表拒绝置评。
Born of humble beginnings — Jack Ma, the company’s chairman and co-founder, was an English teacher in China — Alibaba has grown to dominate the Chinese online shopping market. It has expanded beyond marketplaces into a dizzying array of businesses, like online payments, a money-market fund and ownership of a top Chinese soccer team.
成立时很不起眼的阿里巴巴如今已在中国电商市场占据主导地位。公司董事局主席、联合创始人马云在中国曾经是一名英语老师。该公司的业务已拓展到电子商务之外令人炫目的诸多领域，包括在线支付和货币市场基金，它还拥有中国的一支顶级足球队。
And it has begun small incursions into the United States, through both an e-commerce start-up and often sizable investments in other businesses.
此外，阿里巴巴也已开始小规模地进入美国，包括设立一家电商初创企业，以及对其他企业进行投资。这些投资的规模通常都十分可观。
That had all driven intense interest in Alibaba by the time it filed for a public offering in early May. The stock sale is expected to raise as much as $20 billion, and analysts estimate that the market operator’s net worth will soar to more than $200 billion.
在阿里巴巴5月初申请IPO时，以上种种都成了人们对阿里巴巴股票产生强烈兴趣的理由。这次股票发行预计将筹集200亿美元，分析人士预计，这家电商的净值将飙升至2000亿美元以上。
That offering is expected to be one of the biggest ever held in the United States, potentially surpassing those held by Visa and Facebook.
这次IPO预计将成为美国迄今为止规模最大的之一，有可能超过Visa和Facebook的IPO规模。
Going public in August was always seen as an ambitious, though potentially achievable, target. Company executives and their armada of bankers at six investment banks had set Aug. 6 as a potential day to price the offering, with trading beginning the next day.
在8月上市往往被认为是一种颇具难度但仍有可能达成的目标。阿里巴巴的高管和六家投资银行的众多银行家们此前认定，可能于8月6日为IPO定价，并于第二天开始交易。
That would have meant that trading by investors in its home market would have been on Aug. 8, or “8/8.” The number eight is considered lucky in China. Coincidentally, eight in Chinese is “ba” — and Alibaba’s name happens to have two of those.
这本来可能意味着，其本土市场的投资者的交易会在8月8日开始。8在中国是个幸运数字。巧合的是，阿里巴巴的读音中包括了两个“8”。
But to hit that target, Alibaba would have had to begin its global road show to investors, a nonstop flurry of presentations to big institutional firms around the world, sometime next week.
不过，为了完成这个目标，阿里巴巴必须在下周开始全球路演，也就是向世界各地的大型机构投资者进行不间断的宣讲活动。
And for that to happen, certain other milestones needed to be reached that have not been reached yet. The Securities and Exchange Commission’s review of the offering documents is not yet complete, though that has been going smoothly and has hit few snags, according to the people with knowledge of the matter. Most of the revisions that Alibaba has filed to its prospectus thus far have been fairly minor.
要做到这一点，还需要完成其他尚未完成的阶段性目标。证券交易委员会(Securities and Exchange Commission)对上市文件的审核尚未完成，不过据知情者说，这个过程进展顺利，几乎没有遇到阻碍。阿里巴巴迄今为止对招股说明书做的多数修改都相当之小。