HONG KONG — In a major push into the logistics business, the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group said on Monday that it would invest around $360 million in the Haier Group, one of China’s biggest manufacturers and distributors of household appliances.
中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团周一宣布，将向海尔集团投资大约3.6亿美元（约合人民币22亿元），此举代表着阿里巴巴强化物流业务的一次重要努力。海尔集团是中国最大的家电制造商和经销商之一。
The deal calls for the two companies to set up a joint-venture logistics business, bringing together Alibaba’s huge online retailing platform and client network with Haier’s logistics unit, Goodaymart, which has an especially strong presence in China’s smaller inland cities and provinces.
在这笔交易中，两家公司将联手创立一个物流合资公司，将阿里巴巴庞大的在线零售平台及客户网络与海尔集团的物流子公司日日顺(Goodaymart)的资源整合在一起。日日顺在中国较小的内陆城市和省份有较大的市场占有率。
Shares in Haier’s Hong Kong-listed unit, the Haier Electronics Group, rose as much as 20 percent in early trading on Monday on news of the deal before giving up some of the gains to close up 13 percent.
上述消息传出之后，周一，海尔集团在香港上市的子公司海尔电器集团有限公司(Haier Electronics Group Co.)早盘涨幅高达20%，在回吐了部分涨幅之后，收盘时涨幅约为13%。
‘‘Alibaba Group is honored to join with Haier Group to create this platform that will equip China’s manufacturing industry with enhanced nationwide and global access,’’ Jack Ma, Alibaba’s founder and executive chairman, said in a statement.
阿里巴巴的创始人兼董事局主席马云在一份声明中说，“阿里非常荣幸能够跟海尔共同打造一个平台，让中国的制造业能够通过一种好的平台遍布到全国各地，乃至世界各地。”
Companies around the world are responding to the rapid growth of Internet retail by seeking ways to deliver goods more quickly to buyers.
全世界的公司都在寻求以更快的速度将货物送到购买者手里，以适应电子商务的快速增长。
Last week, Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon.com, proposed using drones to deliver packages to customers in the United States.
上周，亚马逊(Amazon.com)的创始人杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)提出了在美国用无人机送货的计划。
Other companies, including United Parcel Service and Google, are considering using drones for delivery, too, but are also working on ways to provide so called on-demand delivery.
一些其他公司也在考虑用无人机送货，包括联合包裹服务公司(United Parcel Service)和谷歌，但同时也在研究提供所谓的“定制送货”服务的方法。
For Alibaba, which is considering an initial public offering in New York that analysts say could make it one of the world’s most valuable Internet companies, one of the strongest selling points to the deal with Haier is a stronger distribution network for the goods that are sold on Tmall.com, its popular business-to-consumer platform.
对于阿里巴巴来说，与海尔的交易的最大吸引力在于，这将为其旗下广受欢迎的B2C（商家对客户）平台天猫(Tmall.com)上出售的商品提供一个更强大的配送网络。阿里巴巴正在考虑在纽约上市，分析人士说，这可能会使该公司成为世界上最有价值的互联网公司之一。
Alibaba says more than 70,000 international and Chinese brands have already set up digital storefronts on Tmall.com, where transaction volumes in 2012 surpassed 200 billion renminbi, or about $33 billion, and hit a single-day global record of 35 billion renminbi on Nov. 11 this year — a day celebrated in China as ‘‘Singles’ Day,’’ which is now a nationwide shopping event.
阿里巴巴说，超过7万个国际和国内品牌已经在天猫上建立网店，2012年的交易额超过了人民币2000亿元，即约330亿美元，今年11月11日，天猫的成交额突破了人民币350亿元，创造了单日交易额的全球最高纪录。中国的“光棍节”11月11日现在已经成了全国性的购物狂欢日。
The deal gives Tmall.com access to Goodaymart’s extensive network in China, which includes nine shipping bases and more than 21 million square feet of warehouse space.
这笔交易让天猫得以利用日日顺在中国的庞大网络，这包括九个发运基地和超过200万平方米的仓储面积。
Haier says Goodaymart runs logistics and distribution sites in more than 2,800 counties across China and operates more than 17,000 service points.
海尔说，日日顺在全国2800多个县运营着物流配送站，经营着超过1.7万个服务网点。
Haier, which in September sold a 10 percent stake in itself to the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, is best known for selling white goods, like a washing machine that also washes potatoes.
海尔在今年9月将10%的股份出售给了私募公司科尔伯格·克拉维斯·罗伯茨公司(Kohlberg Kravis Roberts&Company)。海尔集团以销售白色家电而驰名，它的产品中包括能洗土豆的洗衣机。
But it is Haier’s logistics and distribution business, which handles both its own products and those of competitors, that today accounts for most of its sales.
但是目前，海尔的物流和配送业务在销售额中的比重最大。海尔的物流和配送业务的对象既包括自有产品，也包括竞争者的产品。
This business line, which Haier Electronics refers to as integrated channel services, reported revenue of 26.6 billion renminbi in the first six months of this year, up 11 percent from the period a year earlier.
这一业务类别——海尔电器将其称作“整合渠道服务”——今年前六个月录得了人民币266亿元的营收，比去年同期增长了11%。
Alibaba’s total investment in Haier is worth 2.82 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $364 million, and consists of several transactions. The company will pay 965 million dollars for new shares, representing a 2 percent stake in Haier Electronics.
阿里巴巴对海尔的总投资为28.2亿港元，即3.64亿美元，由多项交易组成。公司将会斥资9.65亿港元认购海尔电器的新股份，相当于后者2%的股权。
Alibaba will also pay 541 million dollars for a 9.9 percent stake in Goodaymart, and 1.32 billion dollars for convertible bonds issued by Goodaymart that will lift its total stake in the logistics business to 24.1 percent once the notes are converted into shares. 
阿里巴巴还将斥资5.41亿港元，认购日日顺9.9%的股权，并斥资13.2亿港元购买日日顺发行的可转换债券。一旦这些票据转换为股票，它在这家物流公司的股份将增至24.1%。