HONG KONG — The Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba is on an acquisition spree, resulting in huge rallies in the shares of the companies it has targeted after the deals were made public.
香港——中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴公司最近掀起一股收购狂潮，使作为其收购对象公司的股票，在收购消息公布后激涨。
But in its latest deal, an $804 million agreement to buy control of a Hong Kong media group, shares in the target company began rallying well before Alibaba’s purchase was announced.
然而，在阿里巴巴最近做一笔交易时，虽然离收购消息公布还有些日子，但收购对象的股票就已经开始猛涨；阿里巴巴签下协议，将斥资逾8.04亿美元收购一家香港传媒公司的控制股权。
On Feb. 25, the ChinaVision Media Group suspended trading in its shares, as is customary in the Hong Kong market, pending a company announcement, which turned out to be the Alibaba deal on Tuesday. But in the last three full trading sessions before the suspension, shares in ChinaVision had surged 53.7 percent.
2月25日，文化中国传播公司按照香港市场管理规则暂停交易，等待公司的宣布。事实证明，所宣布的就是阿里巴巴于周二做的那笔收购交易。但是，文化中国传播股票在停盘前的三个交易日里，股价已激增了53.7%。
The average daily trading volume in the stock over the three days was more than 500 percent higher than it had been in the preceding 30-day period.
这三天期间，该公司股票日均交易量是此前30天日均交易量的500%还多。
‘‘Although the company had made announcements they were in negotiations over unspecified transactions, this is still an exceptional amount of activity,’’ David Webb, a well-known activist investor in Hong Kong, said Wednesday. ‘‘I would expect the Securities and Futures Commission to investigate.’’
著名香港投资活动人士戴维·韦布(David Webb)周三说，“虽然该公司已经宣布过在就某些未说明的交易进行谈判，但这种交易活动仍异乎寻常。我估计证券及期货事务监察委员会(Securities and Futures Commission)会介入调查。”
The commission, which polices Hong Kong’s markets, declined to comment on Wednesday, as did Alibaba. Phone calls and emails to ChinaVision Media and its financial adviser on the deal, Reorient Financial Markets, were not immediately returned.
负责监管香港市场的证券及期货事务监察委员会周三拒绝发表评论，阿里巴巴公司也拒绝评论。记者给文化中国传播公司打了电话、发了电子邮件，也给该公司此次交易的金融咨询机构：瑞东金融市场有限公司打了电话、发了电子邮件，两者都没有马上回复。
ChinaVision’s shares resumed trading on Wednesday, a day after the company — which invests in film, television, newspapers and multimedia businesses in China — announced that it would issue new shares to Alibaba representing a 60 percent stake in ChinaVision, for 6.24 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $804 million, a deal priced at 50 Hong Kong cents a share.
文化中国传播公司的股票在周三重新恢复交易，一天前这家公司宣布将向阿里巴巴发行新股，这将让阿里巴巴持有该公司60%的股权，新股份总价值为62.4亿港元，或8.04亿美元，相当于每股50港分。文化中国传播公司的业务是在中国投资影视、报纸和多媒体公司。
The announcement sent shares in ChinaVision soaring. The stock closed at 1.83 Hong Kong dollars, or 186 percent above where it had last traded before the suspension.
这一消息使文化中国传播公司的股价飙升，以每股1.83港元收盘，超过停盘前最后一次交易价186%。
It is the second time this year that an investment by Alibaba has created a frenzy over shares in a Hong Kong company, a phenomenon that Mr. Webb referred to as ‘‘Alibubbles.’’ In January, shares in Citic 21CN, a small pharmaceutical data company in China, rose nearly 400 percent after Alibaba agreed to pay about $170 million for a controlling stake.
这是今年第二次发生的、阿里巴巴投资引发一家香港公司股价飙升的事情，韦布称这种现象为“阿里泡泡”。1月份中国一家小型医药数据公司、中信21世纪公司(Citic 21CN)的股价，在阿里巴巴同意以约1.7亿美元(合10.4亿元人民币)收购其控制股权后，飙涨近400%。
Abnormal increases in a stock’s price and trading volumes that take place before major deals are announced can be a coincidence, and common share speculation is not against the rules. But such trading patterns can also be a warning sign to regulators and can set off scrutiny over potential insider trading or other illegal attempts to manipulate the market.
股票价格和交易量在公司宣布重大交易消息之前异常增长可能是巧合，普通股票的投机交易并不违反市场规则。但是这种交易模式也可能是向监管者发出的一个警告信号，会引发对内幕交易或是其他非法操纵市场活动的调查。
In ChinaVision’s case, the company had made two disclosures earlier this year that might have attracted speculative investment.
就文化中国传播的情况来说，该公司今年早些时候曾有过两次披露，这可能会吸引投机性投资。