HONG KONG — Alibaba is pushing further into the very sector that it helped to disrupt with a $2.6 billion bid for Intime Retail, a department store and mall operator in China.
香港——阿里巴巴正在深入进军一个它有份参与颠覆的行业，该公司提出以26亿美元的价格收购中国一家百货和购物中心运营商银泰商业(Intime Retail)。
Alibaba, a Chinese e-commerce behemoth, already owned 28 percent of Intime, which is listed in Hong Kong, and made an offer with Shen Guo Jun, the founder of the department store chain, to take the company private.
阿里巴巴是中国电子商务巨头，已经拥有香港上市公司的银泰28%的股份，它向这家百货连锁店的创始人沈国军提出了私有化要约。
The buyers have offered 10 Hong Kong dollars, or about $1.29, per Intime share, a 42 percent premium over its closing price on Dec. 28, when trading of its stock was suspended. The deal, which is subject to shareholder approval, would give Alibaba a controlling stake of about 74 percent.
阿里巴巴提出以每股10元港币的价格收购银泰股票，较12月28日停牌前收市价溢价42%。该交易须经股东批准，阿里巴巴将因此获得约74%的控股权。
The takeover of Intime is part of a strategy that makes Alibaba a rarity among major global e-commerce companies — it has spent billions buying up pieces of the very retail sector it disrupted.
入主银泰是阿里巴巴战略的一部分，这个战略让阿里巴巴成为全球大牌电商中的异类——它已经花了数以十亿计的美元，在它所颠覆的零售业中收购企业。
The e-commerce giant argues that physical retailers will remain relevant and can be improved with technology. In that respect, it seems to be in agreement with its American peer, Amazon, which has begun experimenting with physical shopping spaces. But unlike Alibaba, Amazon has been opening its own stores.
这家电子商务巨头认为，实体零售商依旧有价值，并可以通过技术方式获得改进。在这方面，它似乎与其美国同行亚马逊看法相同，亚马逊也已开始试水实体购物店。但与阿里巴巴不同的是，亚马逊是自己开店。
Alibaba has also bucked the trend among its peers with logistics. Unlike Amazon and JD.com, its Chinese rival, Alibaba has shied away from owning its own inventory or trying to build out logistics.
阿里巴巴也没有采取同行自建物流的做法。与亚马逊以及本土竞争对手京东不同的是，阿里巴巴没有尝试自建库存或物流。
Although China is the world’s largest delivery market, the country is still struggling with decades of underinvestment in inland logistics. This has given rise to a raft of businesses that specialize in ferrying goods to people’s homes. Alibaba comprises the majority of business for one courier, ZTO Express, which raised $1.4 billion in an initial public offering last year.
虽然中国是世界上最大的配送市场，但中国几十年来在内陆物流上投资不足仍然是个问题。这导致了一大批专门将商品运送到户的公司涌现。中通快递去年首次公开募股筹集了14亿美元，阿里巴巴就是这家快递公司的大客户。
But as a result, Alibaba has also made a number of recent acquisitions and investments that seem designed in part to bolster an alliance of logistics companies that it has organized to support its enormous e-commerce sites. It took a stake in another courier company, YTO Express, with the aim of improving its rural delivery service.
然而，阿里巴巴最近也因此进行了一些收购和投资，此举似乎部分上是为了巩固一个物流公司联盟，而组织这个联盟正是为了给其巨大的电子商务网站提供支持。为改善其在农村的配送服务，它还收购了另一家快递公司圆通的股份。
That Alibaba begins the year with a major acquisition shows that the company has no intention of slowing its merger binge. Even as some have wondered how the company can digest and manage the myriad strategic investments and acquisitions it has made in recent years, it seems set to continue buying where it sees opportunities.
阿里巴巴在新年伊始的这一大笔收购之举表明，该公司无意放慢其并购步伐。虽然有些人想知道该阿里巴巴会如何消化和管理近年来所进行的无数战略投资和收购的资产，但它似乎仍将继续收购它看中的公司。
Alibaba said in a news release that by merging its data with Intime’s, it could get better information on customers, both online and offline, and improve inventory management.
阿里巴巴在一份新闻稿中说，通过整合自己与银泰的数据，可以更好地掌握在线和线下客户的信息，改进库存管理。
“We don’t divide the world into real or virtual economies, only the old and new,” Daniel Zhang, the Alibaba chief executive, said in the news release. “Those who cling on to the old ways of retailing will be disrupted, and brick-and-mortar businesses will be able to create value for consumers if they are integrated with the power of mobile reach, real-time consumer insights, and technology capability to improve operating efficiency.”
阿里巴巴首席执行官张勇在新闻稿中说，“经济没有实体和虚拟之分，只有新旧之别，如果漠视机遇，那么就会不可避免被边缘甚至被淘汰。若能融合移动互联网、实时用户数据及科技的力量来提升运营效率，实体零售企业能够为消费者创造出全新的价值。”
Shares in Intime rose 35 percent on Tuesday, the first full day they were allowed to trade after the suspension.
周二银泰股价上涨35%，这是它停牌后恢复交易的第一个完整交易日。