SAN FRANCISCO — For Yahoo, the initial public offering of stock in the Alibaba Group will unlock the door to a giant trove of cash. Depending on the price of the deal, Yahoo most likely will receive $10 billion to $15 billion for the 9 percent stake in the Chinese e-commerce company that it is required to sell in the offering.
旧金山——中国电子商务公司阿里巴巴集团的首次公开募股(IPO)将为雅虎开启一座装满现金的巨大宝库。雅虎届时需要出售它持有的9%的阿里巴巴股份，这很可能会给雅虎带来100亿美元（约合人民币622亿元）到150亿美元的进账，具体数字取决于IPO发行价格。
The I.P.O. will also bring an end to the long honeymoon of Yahoo’s chief executive, Marissa Mayer. Since she was hired in the summer of 2012, investors have paid little attention to her efforts to revive the fading Internet company and instead focused on what would happen with Yahoo’s longstanding investments in Alibaba and Yahoo Japan.
这次IPO也会给雅虎首席执行官玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)的悠长蜜月画上句号。自从她2012年夏上任以来，投资者很少关注她重振这家衰落的互联网公司的努力，而是把目光聚焦在了该公司对阿里巴巴和雅虎日本(Yahoo Japan)的长期投资可能获得怎样的回报上。
At Yahoo’s current stock price of $36.49, some analysts say, investors are basically buying those foreign investments and getting Yahoo’s core operations free.
对于雅虎目前36.49美元的股价，一些分析师说，投资者看中的基本上都是该公司的海外投资，而把雅虎的核心业务当作免费赠品。
When Alibaba begins trading as a public company, however, that crutch will disappear. Ms. Mayer will then have to prove to Wall Street that she has a viable plan to save Yahoo and will use the Alibaba windfall wisely.
但是，在阿里巴巴上市交易之后，雅虎就会失去这根拐杖。梅耶尔则需要向华尔街证明，她有一个挽救雅虎的可行计划，而且会明智地利用阿里巴巴IPO带来的横财。
“What do you do with that money?” asked Robert S. Peck, an analyst with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, who estimates that Yahoo will end up with about $8 billion after taxes.
“你要把那笔钱用来做什么？”SunTrust Robinson Humphrey的分析师罗伯特·S·佩克(Robert S. Peck)问道。他估计雅虎最终将获得80亿美元的税后进账。
Yahoo was required to sell half its stake under an agreement it reached with Alibaba in 2012. The agreement was amended last year to require Yahoo to sell less than half its stake — or 9 percent of Alibaba.
根据两家公司2012年达成的一项协议，雅虎需要出售其持有的阿里巴巴股份的一半。该协议去年修订后，雅虎需要出售的股份已经不到一半​——相当于阿里巴巴9%的股份。
Yahoo executives aren’t saying much about what they will do with the proceeds, citing a regulatory quiet period surrounding the I.P.O. But they dropped a few hints during an April conference call to discuss the company’s first-quarter financial results. “We intend to be good stewards of our capital and we have been to date,” Ms. Mayer said in the call, in response to a question about what she might do with a sudden influx of cash.
对于雅虎将怎么使用这些所得款项，该公司高管以目前仍处在IPO前的静默期为由，没有说太多。但今年4月在讨论雅虎第一季度财务业绩的电话会议中，他们透露了一些线索。“我们打算好好管理公司的资产，我们一直以来都是这么做的，”梅耶尔在那次电话会议中针对一个问题，说了她可能会如何处理突然涌入的大笔现金。
“When we look at the investments we need to make in the business, you’ll see the same type of mix we’ve been making to date. Some strategic acquisitions, some tuck-in acquisitions, and we really need to see what opportunities arise in terms of the ways we could deploy the cash at that time.”
“在我们考虑公司需要的业务投资时，你会看到，我们会遵循公司一直以来的投资组合方式。进行一些战略性收购，一些补强型收购。我们真的需要根据当时可以支配的现金，来考虑面前有怎样的投资机会。”
Analysts predict that Yahoo will spend a large portion of the proceeds from the Alibaba stock sale to buy back shares of Yahoo. A buyback would in theory make the company’s shares more valuable because each remaining share would have a slightly bigger claim on Yahoo’s business.
分析人士预测，雅虎出售阿里巴巴股票获得的款项，有很大一部分会被用来回购雅虎股份。从理论上说，回购会提高雅虎股票的价值，因为剩下的每股都会对应价值稍大的雅虎资产。
Ms. Mayer could also throw a few coins directly to shareholders in the form of a dividend, which would be taxable to the recipients but give them a very tangible piece of the cash hoard. Yahoo pays no dividend now.
梅耶尔也可以以股息的形式直接分些钱给股东，收到这些钱的人需要为此上税，但是此举会让他们获得一些非常实在的现金收入。雅虎现在没有在支付股息。
Yahoo is likely to keep the rest of the money for acquisitions, adding to the $2.9 billion in cash and short-term liquid investments it already has. (The company says it also has $1.6 billion in liquid long-term investments.)
剩下的钱，雅虎则可能把它们跟现有的29亿美元现金和短期流动性投资合在一起，用来收购其他公司。（雅虎表示，它还拥有16亿美元的长期流动性投资。）
Under Ms. Mayer, Yahoo has made dozens of tiny acquisitions, and one large one — the $1.1 billion purchase of Tumblr, a blogging platform, last May.
在梅耶尔任首席执行官期间，雅虎已经进行了数十起小型收购以及一起大型收购——去年5月斥资11亿美元收购博客平台Tumblr。
In recent months, rumors have swirled that Yahoo was sniffing at larger prey, like the instant-messaging service Snapchat or an online video service.
近几个月来，一直有传言说雅虎在考虑收购更大的公司，比如即时通讯服务Snapchat，或是一个在线视频服务。
Yahoo Japan, a joint venture between Yahoo and SoftBank, a Japanese technology company, holds riches too. It operates independently from Yahoo, which owns about 35 percent of the company and records a proportional share of its revenue and profits. Yahoo Japan’s stock is traded in Tokyo; Yahoo’s stake is worth about $9.2 billion.
雅虎日本是雅虎和日本科技公司软银(SoftBank)的合资企业，它也是雅虎的一笔财富。虽然该公司的运作独立于雅虎之外，雅虎拥有其35%的股份，并可录入相应比例的收入和利润。雅虎日本的股票在东京交易，雅虎持有其股份的价值约达92亿美元。
During the April call, Yahoo’s chief financial officer, Kenneth A. Goldman, suggested that the company would look more closely at international acquisitions to bolster the company’s foreign presence.
在今年4月的那个电话会议中，雅虎首席财政官肯尼斯·A·古德曼(Kenneth A. Goldman)表示，该公司将更加密切地关注国际收购，以提升雅虎的海外业务规模。
Whatever Yahoo does, shareholders want some assurance that it fits a broader strategy, Mr. Peck said.
无论雅虎怎么做，股东都希望该公司多少能保证，在这些做法的背后有一个更大的战略，佩克说。
“Don’t waste our money,” he put it. “Don’t pay $17 billion for something with no revenue, like WhatsApp,” the instant-messaging service bought by Facebook for roughly that sum this year.
“不要浪费我们的钱，”他说。“不要花170亿美元去收购WhatsApp那种没有营收的业务，”Facebook今年以大约170亿美元的价格收购了那个即时通讯服务。
When Alibaba begins trading as an independent stock, many investors who bought Yahoo as a proxy for the fast-growing Chinese company will simply buy Alibaba directly.
一旦阿里巴巴的股票开始独立交易，很多把雅虎股票当作代替品的投资者就会直接去购买这家快速增长的中国公司的股票。
Those who continue to buy Yahoo, analysts say, will expect Ms. Mayer and her top executives to show better results.
那些继续购买雅虎股票的人，分析师称，将期待梅耶尔及其高管做出更好的业绩。
Mark Mahaney, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said he could not discuss Alibaba because his firm hoped to play a role in the I.P.O.
马克·马哈尼(Mark Mahaney)是RBC Capital Markets的分析师，他说自己不能谈阿里巴巴，因为他的公司希望参与阿里巴巴的IPO工作。
But he pointed out that Yahoo’s advertising business trails competitors like Google, Facebook and Twitter and is especially weak in the fastest-growing areas of digital advertising. “The fact that mobile, social and video are still immaterial to Yahoo’s revenue paints a very sharp picture of how much catch-up work Yahoo still has to do,” he said.
但他指出，雅虎的广告业务落后于谷歌、Facebook和Twitter等竞争对手，而且在数字广告增长最快的领域尤其薄弱。“事实上，在雅虎的营收中，移动、社交和视频广告所占比例仍然微不足道，这让人清楚地看到，雅虎需要付出多大的努力来迎头赶上。”他说。
Even after the I.P.O., Alibaba will retain some ties to Yahoo.
阿里巴巴即便在上市之后，也会跟雅虎保留一些关系。
Yahoo will continue to own about 13.6 percent of Alibaba, giving it a share in future profits of the company. Although the two companies have no joint business ventures, Jacqueline D. Reses, Yahoo’s chief development officer, sits on Alibaba’s board, giving her a prime view into the Chinese Internet market.
雅虎将继续持有阿里巴巴约13.6%的股份，因此以后还可以分享阿里巴巴的利润。尽管两家公司没有合资企业，但雅虎的首席开发官杰奎琳·D·雷瑟斯(Jacqueline D. Reses)是阿里巴巴董事会的一名成员，这让她站到了了解中国互联网市场的近水楼台上。
A successful I.P.O. will be vindication for Jerry Yang, Yahoo’s co-founder and former chief executive. Mr. Yang struck up a friendship long ago with Alibaba’s co-founder, Jack Ma, and had the foresight to buy about 40 percent in 2005.
阿里巴巴的IPO如果成功，雅虎联合创始人、前首席执行官杨致远的声誉将得以重振。杨致远很早之前跟阿里巴巴的创始人马云结下了友谊，并在2005年颇具先见之明地购买了阿里巴巴约40%的股份。
Investors later savaged Mr. Yang for rejecting Microsoft’s 2008 offer to buy Yahoo for $47.5 billion. But Yahoo ended up being worth more than that, mostly because of the Alibaba investment. Yahoo sold about half its original stake back to Alibaba in early 2012 for about $7.1 billion.
杨致远2008年拒绝了微软以475亿美元收购雅虎的提议，遭到投资者的猛烈抨击。但后来雅虎的价值变得高于微软的出价，这主要是由于对阿里巴巴的投资。2012年初，雅虎以约71亿美元的价格，将其手中约一半的股份回售了给阿里巴巴。
With Alibaba soon to play a much smaller role in Yahoo’s finances, Ms. Mayer will get an unvarnished look at how investors view their leadership.
很快，阿里巴巴对雅虎财务发挥的作用就会大大减弱，因此，对于投资者是如何看待雅虎领导层的，梅耶尔将会看到直截了当的证据。