The e-commerce behemoth Alibaba filed in the United States on Tuesday to sell stock to the public for the first time, in an embrace of the global capital markets that represents a coming of age for the booming Chinese Internet industry.
周二，电子商务巨头阿里巴巴(Alibaba)在美国提交了首次公开发行(IPO)申请，这一融入全球资本市场的举措说明蓬勃发展的中国互联网行业正在成熟。
“Alibaba is the fastest-growing Internet company in one of the fastest-growing economies in the world,” said Sameet Sinha, an analyst with B. Riley & Company, a boutique investment bank in Los Angeles.
“阿里巴巴是世界增长最快的经济体中增长最快的互联网公司，”洛杉矶高端投资银行(B. Riley & Company)的分析师萨米特·辛哈(Sameet Sinha)说。
In the filing, Alibaba said it intended to raise $1 billion in an initial public offering – a figure used to calculate its registration fee. But the company is expected ultimately to raise $15 billion to $20 billion, which would make it the biggest American I.P.O. since Facebook’s $16 billion offering May 2012.
阿里巴巴在申请文件中称，公司计划通过此次IPO筹资10亿美元（约合62.3亿元人民币）——这是用来计算其注册费的数据。但人们估计阿里巴巴最终能筹到150亿到200亿美元，由此成为继Facebook之后美国筹资额最高的IPO。2012年5月，Facebook的IPO筹资额达到了160亿美元。
When it makes its debut on either the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq market, Alibaba is also expected to have a share price that could value the company at roughly $200 billion — more than the market value of Facebook, Amazon.com or eBay, although still trailing that of Google or Apple.
不论阿里巴巴最终在纽约证交所(New York Stock Exchange)还是纳斯达克(Nasdaq)上市，它的股价估计都会使公司的估值达到2000亿美元左右。这个数字虽然赶不上谷歌(Google)和苹果(Apple)，但却超过了Facebook、亚马逊(Amazon.com)和eBay。
Many investors may see Alibaba as their best chance yet to buy into China’s enormous growth. Yet the offering will also shine a bright light on a company that is relatively unknown in the West and whose complex web of businesses and dealings may put off potential shareholders.
许多投资者可能会把阿里巴巴的募股看做介入中国快速经济增长的最佳时机。然而，此次公开募股还会让人进一步了解这家公司，这家公司在西方不太知名，其复杂的业务和交易网络还可能让潜在股东望而却步。
In China, Alibaba’s brands are household names. It operates an online shopping center, Tmall, where global companies like Walt Disney, Apple, L’Oréal, Nike and Procter & Gamble have set up virtual storefronts to sell products directly to Chinese shoppers. Another of its sites, Taobao, is aimed largely at small Chinese firms that want to sell items to Chinese consumers.
在中国，阿里巴巴可谓家喻户晓。它旗下有网络购物中心天猫(Tmall)，沃尔特·迪士尼(Walt Disney)、苹果(Apple)、欧莱雅(L'Oréal)、耐克(Nike)和宝洁(Procter & Gamble)等国际公司都在这个网站开设了虚拟商店，直接把产品卖给中国客户。阿里巴巴旗下还有淘宝网，其服务对象主要是想把东西卖给中国消费者的中国小公司。
The company’s digital payment affiliate, Alipay, not only handles transactions on its sites, but is also widely used as a mobile payment system on cellphones in China, much as credit cards are used in other countries. It handled $519 billion worth of payments last year.
阿里巴巴旗下的电子支付系统支付宝不仅能在自己的网站上处理交易，中国手机用户也广泛使用它来进行移动支付，应用范围之广几乎与信用卡在其他国家使用的程度相当。去年，支付宝共处理交易5190亿美元。
Last year, the value of all merchandise sold on Alibaba exceeded $248 billion, more than the volume on eBay and Amazon combined. Nearly 20 percent of those purchases were made through mobile phones in the last three months of last year.
去年，阿里巴巴售出的商品价值总额超过了2480亿美元，比eBay和亚马逊加起来还多。去年第四季度，这些购买活动有将近20%都通过移动支付完成。
American companies like Google and eBay can only dream of making the kind of profit margin that Alibaba enjoys. Last year, Alibaba had net income of $3.56 billion on revenue of $7.95 billion. That translates into a profit margin of roughly 45 percent. In comparison, eBay mustered a 17.8 percent margin. (Alibaba reports its annual results slightly differently, since its fiscal year ends March 31; by that measure, the company said it earned $1.35 billion on earnings of $4.69 billion in its most recent full fiscal year.)
阿里巴巴的利润率令谷歌和eBay等美国公司望尘莫及。去年，阿里巴巴总收益79.5亿美元，净收益则为35.6亿美元。也就是说，其利润率大约为45%。相比之下，eBay 的利润率仅为17.8%。（阿里巴巴报告其年度收益的方式略有不同，因为其财年的结束时间为3月31日；按照这种计算方法，阿里巴巴表示，它最近一个完整财年的总收益为46.9亿美元，净收益为13.5亿美元。）
Alibaba has much higher profit margins than American Internet companies, analysts say, because its costs are low. It doesn’t own the merchandise sold on its sites, making money instead from the merchants that pay a commission for access or buy ads to promote themselves. Alibaba also pays very little in taxes.
分析师说， 阿里巴巴的利润率比美国互联网公司高很多，原因是成本低。网站上出售的商品并不属于阿里巴巴，公司只通过商家支付的店面费或广告费来挣钱。阿里巴巴缴纳的税款也很少。
Wall Street has been eagerly awaiting an I.P.O., wanting to share in the company’s stupendous growth. Alibaba reigns as one of China’s top three Internet players, along with the search engine company Baidu and the media and gaming conglomerate Tencent, but is bigger and more profitable than those rivals.
华尔街一直在焦急地等待此次IPO，希望从阿里巴巴的快速增长中分一杯羹。阿里巴巴是中国最大的三家互联网公司之一，另外两家是搜索引擎公司百度，以及媒体和游戏集团腾讯(Tencent)，但阿里巴巴规模更大，利润率也比这些竞争对手高。
Some investors have resorted to indirect routes to get a piece of Alibaba, like buying stock in Yahoo and Japan’s Softbank, which both hold major stakes in the Chinese company.
一些投资者已经开始通过间接途径介入阿里巴巴，比如购买雅虎(Yahoo)和日本软银(SoftBank)的股份，这两家公司都持有这家中国公司的相当一部分股权。
When Yahoo first bought a 40 percent stake in 2005, it valued Alibaba at just $2.5 billion. Six years later, when a consortium of investors took another stake in Alibaba, they did so at a valuation of about $32 billion. Now, analysts estimate that Alibaba may be worth anywhere between $130 billion and $235 billion.
2005年，雅虎买下了阿里巴巴40%的股份，当时它给阿里巴巴的估值仅为25亿美元。6年后，一群投资者购买了阿里巴巴的另一部分股份，他们对公司的估值约为320亿美元。如今，分析人士估计阿里巴巴的市值可能在1300亿到2350亿美元之间。
As recently as April, Alibaba valued itself at more than $120 billion, a figure that was intended  to help determine stock-based compensation.
就在今年4月，阿里巴巴对自己的估值为1200多亿美元，估值有助于确定股权收入。
It’s not just the big money of Wall Street that is looking to participate in the I.P.O. The immense size of the offering means that Alibaba shares will probably find a home in a broad swath of mutual funds and pension funds — and thus indirectly in the portfolios of small investors around the world.
希望参与此次IPO的不仅是华尔街的巨额资本。此次募股的规模十分巨大，意味着大量共同基金和养老基金也很有可能获得阿里巴巴的部分股权，世界各地的小投资者也将由此实现间接持股。
Shares aren’t expected to begin publicly trading for several months, as the Securities and Exchange Commission reviews Alibaba’s offering materials and the company holds a roadshow to promote its prospects to institutional investors.
据估计，该公司股票不会在未来数月之内开始公开交易。在这段时间里，美国证券交易委员会（Securities and Exchange Commission，简称SEC）将对阿里巴巴的上市材料进行审核，该公司则将举行路演，向机构投资人宣传其投资前景。
That time frame increases the risk that investors may be less willing to take a chance on an expensive Internet stock. Technology stocks have fallen sharply in the last few weeks after an impressive run, with some analysts saying they are overvalued. At the same time, the market’s appetite for I.P.O.’s has also cooled.
这种时间安排也增加了投资者不愿冒险购买一只高价互联网股票的可能性。过去几周，科技股在一阵猛涨后出现暴跌，一些分析人士表示这些股票定价过高。与此同时，股市对IPO的胃口也变小了。
Alibaba amassed its multi-billion-dollar fortune a little at a time, shrewdly capitalizing on two trends — the rise of the Internet and China’s growing prosperity.
阿里巴巴的亿万财富是逐步积累起来的，它非常精明地利用了两种趋势——互联网的崛起和中国日益增长的财富。
In its prospectus, Alibaba emphasized that it planned to concentrate on the Chinese market, one whose potential it believes hasn’t been fully tapped. It cited statistics showing that only about 45.8 percent of the country’s population used the Internet, significantly lower than in the United States and Japan. And only about 49 percent of customers in the country shopped online.
在招股书中，阿里巴巴强调自己计划专注于中国市场，该公司认为，中国市场的潜力尚未得到彻底的发掘。招股书称，统计数据显示中国只有大约45.8%的人口使用互联网，比例远远低于美国和日本。同时，只有大约49%的顾客在网上购物。
SoftBank, the Japanese telecommunications giant, is Alibaba’s biggest investor with a 34.4 percent stake. Yahoo is next, with 22.6 percent.
日本电信巨头软银(SoftBank)是阿里巴巴最大的投资者，持有其34.4%的股份。雅虎位列其后，持股比例为22.6%。
Jack Ma, Alibaba’s founder, is the biggest individual shareholder, owning 8.9 percent of the stock; he is followed by his longtime lieutenant, Joseph C. Tsai, who owns 3.6 percent.
阿里巴巴创始人马云是最大的个人股东，拥有8.9%的股份，紧随其后的是他长期以来的左膀右臂蔡崇信(Joseph C. Tsai)，持股3.6%。
A significant portion of the prospectus was devoted to explaining Alibaba’s “partnership” — a group of 28 individuals that is meant to effectively keep control of the company within a small group. Alibaba has argued that the structure, which prevented it from listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange,  is more effective than a dual-class stock structure found in number of Internet companies like Google and Facebook, in which some shares hold much more voting power than others.
招股书用了相当的篇幅来解释阿里巴巴的“伙伴关系”——这是一个由28人组成的群体，目的是将公司的控制权有效地保持在小范围之内。这种结构使得该公司无法在香港交易所(Hong Kong Stock Exchange)上市，但阿里巴巴称，这种结构比包括谷歌和Facebook在内的许多互联网公司所采用的双层持股结构更有成效。在双层持股结构中，部分股份的投票权远大于其他股份。
According to the offering document, new partners are added every year. The group has the exclusive right to nominate a majority of the company’s directors.
募股文件显示，每年都有新的合作伙伴加入阿里巴巴。前述群体拥有提名公司大部分董事的专属权力。
So far, the company has four directors: Mr. Ma; Mr. Tsai; Masayoshi Son, the chief executive of SoftBank; and Jacqueline D. Reses, Yahoo’s chief development officer. Ms. Reses is expected to resign from the board before Alibaba begins trading on a public market.
迄今为止，公司有四名董事，分别是马云、蔡崇信、软银首席执行官孙正义(Masayoshi Son)和雅虎首席发展官杰奎琳•D•雷瑟斯(Jacqueline D. Reses)。雷瑟斯预计会在阿里巴巴开始在公开市场交易前辞任董事一职。
In all, the Chinese company is expected to have nine directors.
这家中国公司的董事人数预计会达到九名。
Yahoo, which currently owns about 22.6 percent of Alibaba on a fully diluted basis, is set to sell 208 million shares in the offering, leaving it with a roughly 13.6 percent stake. Other big shareholders, like SoftBank, the American private equity firm Silver Lake Partners and the Russian entrepreneur Yuri Milner, are considered unlikely to sell significant portions of their holdings.
以完全摊薄股份计算，雅虎目前拥有阿里巴巴约22.6%的股份。雅虎将在此次股票发行中卖出2.08亿股股票，此后雅虎持有的股份大致为13.6%。据估计，诸如软银、美国私募股权公司银湖伙伴公司(Silver Lake Partners)和俄罗斯企业家尤里·米尔纳(Yuri Milner)之类的其他大股东不太可能大量出售自己的股份。 
The company was set up in 1999 by Mr. Ma, then a 34-year-old former English teacher, and 17 others who worked out of Mr. Ma’s modest apartment in the eastern city of Hangzhou. Visitors to Alibaba’s headquarters at the time recall being able to estimate the number of staff by counting the toothbrushes jammed into mugs in Mr. Ma’s bathroom.
1999年，马云和另外17个人一起创办了阿里巴巴，办公地点是东部城市杭州的一处普通公寓。马云当时34岁，之前当过英语老师。那时去过阿里巴巴总部的人回忆说，他们数了数马云洗手间杯子里塞的牙刷，估计出了员工的人数。
The company’s first venture was Alibaba.com, a site designed to connect foreign buyers with Chinese manufacturers. The site was introduced just months before China joined the World Trade Organization, and it would eventually become a beneficiary and contributor to the explosive growth in Chinese exports in the years that followed.
阿里巴巴的第一个尝试是阿里巴巴网站，该网站的目的是连接外国买家和中国制造商。在离中国加入世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)还有几个月时，网站上线。接下来的那些年里，这家网站将最终成为中国出口爆发式增长的受益人和贡献者。
In 2003, Alibaba opened its second main business, Taobao.com, a retail site where individuals and small businesses can buy and sell goods throughout greater China. It was a direct play on Chinese consumption that arrived just as a substantial middle class was emerging in the country’s wealthy coastal metropolises.
2003年，阿里巴巴启动了自己的第二项主要业务，淘宝网。这是一个零售网站，大中华地区的个人和小企业都可以通过这个网站买卖商品。随着规模庞大的中产阶级在中国富裕的沿海大城市里涌现，中国进入了消费时代，该网站直接利用了这一时机。
Unlike its direct competitor at the time, Eachnet, a unit of eBay, Taobao charged nothing for product listings, relying on advertising to make money. It quickly gained market share and effectively forced eBay out of the market.
不同于当时的直接竞争对手、eBay旗下的易趣网(Eachnet)，淘宝不对产品发布收费，而是靠广告赚钱。它很快便获得了市场份额，有效地将易趣网挤出了市场。 
In 2008, Alibaba doubled down on its bet on the Chinese consumer with Tmall.com, a retail site where both local and international brands could set up virtual stores to market products directly to Chinese shoppers. With Tmall, Alibaba takes a cut of the transaction value, tying its profit directly to retail sales volumes.
2008年，阿里巴巴将双倍的赌注押在中国消费者身上，创立了零售网站天猫。在天猫上，本土品牌和国际品牌均可以开设虚拟店铺，直接向中国顾客营销产品。阿里巴巴通过天猫从交易额当中提成，直接将利润和零售销量挂钩。
Alibaba is by far the leader in the Chinese e-commerce market, which handled transactions worth 9.9 trillion renminbi, or $1.6 trillion, last year, according to iResearch Consulting Group, a Chinese consulting firm that studies the industry.
到目前为止，阿里巴巴是中国电子商务市场的领导者，据研究电商行业的中国咨询公司艾瑞咨询集团称，阿里巴巴去年处理的交易价值9.9万亿人民币，约合1.6万亿美元。
The company’s growth hasn’t been without setbacks. Claims of fraud and poor quality products have dogged its various sites, and its partnership with Yahoo has been rocky at times. Its instant messaging service, Laiwang, has struggled to gain ground against the WeChat service from Tencent, a powerhouse on mobile phones.
该公司的增长并非一帆风顺。有关欺骗和产品质量低劣的投诉一直困扰着阿里巴巴旗下的多家网站，它与雅虎的合作关系有时也很不稳定。阿里巴巴的即时通讯服务“来往”一直难以与腾讯旗下的微信服务相抗衡。腾讯在移动端实力强劲。
Still, Alibaba keeps entering new businesses, from mobile phone service and banking to cloud computing and logistics.
尽管如此，阿里巴巴仍然在新领域继续进军，从手机应用到银行，再到云计算和物流。
“It’s becoming a conglomerate,” said Mr. Sinha, the American analyst. “It is going into all aspects of the Internet.”
“它正在变成一个企业集团，”美国分析师辛哈说，“它将进入互联网的各个领域。”
Although the company plans to remain focused on its home market for the foreseeable future, it has global ambitions as well.
阿里巴巴计划在可以预见的将来将重点留在国内市场，但也不乏全球野心。
Alibaba already does significant business in Russia and Brazil, and it has purchased big stakes in American companies like ShopRunner, a delivery service for scores of major retailers, and Tango, a mobile messaging service.
阿里巴巴已经在俄罗斯和巴西开展了大量业务，还收购了ShopRunner和Tango等美国公司的大量股份。ShopRunner为几十家大型零售商提供运送服务，Tango则是一家移动通讯公司。
It is building a new eBay-type retail site, 11Main, that will offer goods to consumers in the United States from a range of handpicked sellers. But that site isn’t expected to represent Alibaba’s big push into this country.
此外，它正在打造新的e-Bay式零售网站11Main，该网站将向美国消费者提供一系列精选卖家的商品。不过，这个网站预计不会是阿里巴巴大举进军美国的象征。