Why do American Internet companies, like Facebook, want so badly to get into China?
为什么Facebook等美国互联网公司会如此渴望进入中国？
The second-largest pool of advertising dollars in the world is there, and right now, Chinese companies like Alibaba and Baidu are scooping up the lion’s share of it.
这里是世界第二大广告收入源，而如今，阿里巴巴和百度等中国公司正在分享它的最大份额。
Alibaba, China’s leading e-commerce company, and Baidu, which dominates Chinese-language search, will be the world’s third- and fourth-largest sellers of digital advertising by revenue this year, each with about 4.7 percent of the global market, according to new projections published on Tuesday by eMarketer, a leading research firm.
根据龙头调查公司eMarketer周二发布的最新预测，从收入方面来看，今年中国最大的电商公司阿里巴巴，以及在中文搜索中占主导地位的百度，即将成为世界排名第三和第四的数字广告销售商，各自在全球市场的份额约为4.7%。
Two other Chinese companies, Tencent and Sina, will together account for another 1.21 percent of digital ad spending worldwide, according to the report.
报告称，另两家中国企业腾讯和新浪加起来在世界数字广告支出的占比将达1.21%。
Google will retain the No. 1 spot, with 31.1 percent of the $146 billion digital ad market worldwide in 2014, and Facebook will remain second with 7.75 percent of the market, eMarketer said.
EMarketer表示，谷歌仍将保持第一的位置，在2014年共计1460亿美元（约合9042亿元人民币）的数字广告市场中占31.1％，而Facebook将以7.75%的市场份额保持第二。
Over all, total marketing dollars spent in China this year across all media — digital, broadcast and print — will be $63.8 billion, second only to the United States at $180 billion, according to a separate eMarketer report last week.
EMarketers上周发布的另一份报告显示，今年中国各种媒体——数字媒体、广播媒体及印刷媒体——的营销支出将达到638亿美元，仅次于美国的1800亿美元排名第二。
Digital ad spending in China this year will be $23.7 billion, the researchers predicted. About 27 percent of that will be on mobile devices, placing the country second only to the United States in both digital ad spending and mobile ad spending. Most of the spending in China is taking place with the homegrown companies, particularly in mobile, where Alibaba and Baidu are powerhouses.
研究人员预测，今年中国的数字广告支出将达到237亿美元。其中27%的资金用于移动广告，使得中国在数字广告支出及移动广告支出方面位列第二，仅次于美国。中国的大部分广告支出通常用于本土公司，特别是在阿里巴巴和百度占据主导地位的移动广告领域。
Dan Marcec, a spokesman for eMarketer, said that advertisers had been slow to adjust to China’s rapid growth in mobile users, but are now catching up, increasing spending on mobile ads by 600 percent this year.
EMarketer发言人丹·马尔切克(Dan Marcec)表示，广告商没有及时适应中国移动设备用户的快速增长，但现在已经赶上发展趋势，在今年将移动广告方面的支出增加了600%。