The Alibaba Group’s coming initial public offering has done little to dent its appetite for acquisitions. The Chinese e-commerce giant announced yet another takeover on Wednesday.
阿里巴巴集团即将进行首次公开募股(IPO)，但该计划并没有削弱收购的欲望。周三，这家电子商务巨头又宣布了一项收购计划。
Alibaba, founded by Jack Ma, said that it was buying full control UCWeb, a big mobile Web browser based in China, as it continues to fight for dominance of its home country’s Internet industry.
由马云建立的阿里巴巴表示，该公司将全资收购中国的大型移动网络浏览器品牌UC优视(UCWeb)。此时，阿里巴巴正努力在中国的互联网行业夺取主导地位。
Alibaba already owns two-thirds of UCWeb after having made investments in 2009 and last year. While it didn’t disclose how much it would pay, Alibaba plans to offer both stock and cash in the transaction.The deal is the latest for Alibaba, which is still moving ahead on its I.P.O., one of the most highly anticipated stock sales in years. The offering, which could come as soon as August, could value the company at more than $150 billion.
在2009年及去年进行投资后，阿里巴巴已经持有UC优视三分之二的股权。虽然没有透露交易金额，但阿里巴巴计划以股票和现金的形式支付，这是阿里巴巴最新一宗并购。目前阿里巴巴正在推进的IPO是多年来最令人期待的上市交易，预计最快将于8月完成。此次IPO会使该公司估值超过1500亿美元（约合9350亿元人民币）。
But the move is closer to the company’s core business than its last acquisition, a 50 percent stake in a Chinese soccer team, and more in line with other takeovers like that of AutoNavi, a Chinese mapping software maker.
但与上次收购一支中国足球队50%股权的交易相比，此次收购更接近公司的核心业务，也与其他收购举措更为一致，比如收购中国地图软件开发商高德地图。
And it could help the company as it competes fiercely with rivals like Tencent, an Internet conglomerate that runs the exceptionally popular WeChat mobile messaging service, and the search engine operator Baidu.
在阿里巴巴和互联网企业集团腾讯，以及搜索引擎企业百度等对手激烈较量之时，此次交易能对阿里巴巴起到帮助。腾讯经营着广受欢迎的手机即时通讯服务微信(WeChat)。
While Alibaba has drawn investor hunger because of the dominance of its two main e-commerce markets, it has been working on amplifying its presence on mobile devices, one of the fastest-growing sectors in Internet use. It has invested in the likes of Sina Weibo, a popular Twitter-like service in China, and the messaging app Tango.
阿里巴巴旗下的两大电子商务平台占据了市场主导地位，因此让投资者垂涎欲滴。同时，它还一直在努力扩大自己在移动设备领域的影响，移动终端是互联网应用中增长最快的平台之一。阿里巴巴投资了新浪微博等服务，也投资了即时通讯应用Tango。新浪微博是一款与Twitter类似的服务，在中国广受欢迎。
Buying UCWeb will give Alibaba closer ties to a potentially important partner on mobile. Founded in 2004, its UC browser now has 500 million quarterly active users around the world. UCWeb also runs a gaming platform and a mobile apps distributor.
收购UC优视，可以加深阿里巴巴与这个可能很重要的移动合作伙伴之间的关系。2004年问世的UC浏览器目前在全球拥有5亿季度活跃用户。UC优视还经营着一个游戏平台和一家移动应用销售平台。
In April, the two began a mobile search joint venture, Shenma.
今年4月，这两家公司还联合创立了一家移动搜索企业神马搜索。
When the deal closes, UCWeb will become a division of Alibaba overseeing the browser, mobile search, gaming and apps offerings of the company.
交易完成后，UC优视将成为阿里巴巴旗下的一个事业群，负责公司的浏览器、移动搜索、游戏和应用产品。
“Alibaba has unconditionally supported UCWeb’s endeavors over the course of the past five years, and we are excited to become a part of the team,” Yu Yongfu, UCWeb’s chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.
“过去五年，阿里兑现了‘无条件支持UC发展’的承诺，”UC优视董事长兼首席执行官俞永福在一则声明中表示，“成为阿里大家庭的一部分”很激动人心。