Pricing initial public offerings is an inexact science. Predicting how investors will value a large, fast-growing Chinese e-commerce group involves even more guesswork. That makes Alibaba’s decision to lift the maximum price for its coming stock market debut by just $2 a share to $68 puzzling.
给首次公开募股(IPO)定价不是一门严谨的学问。预测投资者将如何评估一家增长迅速的大型电子商务企业的过程，猜测的成分就更多了。因此，阿里巴巴将IPO的价格区间上限提高了2美元，至每股68美元，真是让人百思不解。
It’s not unusual for companies listing in the United States to tweak their I.P.O. price range before finalizing the offering. What’s surprising is that Alibaba made such a small adjustment when confronted with what people involved in the process describe as “overwhelming” demand from investors.
美股上市企业在IPO前调整价格区间的做法并不罕见。不可思议的是，当内部人士称需求“势不可挡”的时候，阿里巴巴的调整幅度竟如此之小。
The new ceiling is only 3 percent above the previous maximum. Compare that with Twitter, which priced its shares 30 percent above the top of the original price range, or Facebook, which lifted its price by 9 percent and also sold an extra chunk of stock. Even JD.com, Alibaba’s Chinese rival, priced its I.P.O. 6 percent above initial indications.
新的价格上限仅提高了3%。相比之下，Twitter的发行价比最初的价格区间上限提高了30%，而Facebook把价格提高了9%，并且增加了发行量。就连阿里巴巴的竞争对手京东，对其IPO的定价也曾上调6%。
The new maximum market capitalization of $168 billion ($169 billion if underwriters exercise an option to sell some more shares) does not look a stretch. A Breakingviews calculator puts the company’s value at $158 billion.
按照新的定价，公司市值最多可达1680亿美元（如果承销商行使一项出售更多股份的权利，市值可能达1690亿美元），这看上去不算离谱。Breakingviews将该公司市值定为1580亿美元。
But the higher target would be justified if Alibaba’s e-commerce volumes grow by 35 percent a year for the next two years, rather than 30 percent, or if Alibaba’s operating margin remains at its current level of 43 percent, rather than declining to 40 percent.
但如果在接下来两年里，阿里巴巴的电子商务交易量年增长率能够达到35%，而非30%，如果阿里巴巴的营业毛利率能够维持现有水平——43%，而非降至40%，这个较高的筹资目标也算是合理的。
Prospective shareholders may be shrugging off some of the factors that ought to weigh on Alibaba’s valuation. These include the untested legal structures by which the company controls some of its operations in China, and governance arrangements that ensure outsiders will have little say in who sits on Alibaba’s board.
潜在的股东可能会对那些影响阿里巴巴市值的因素不屑一顾。比如未经检验的法律架构和制度安排，这种架构允许阿里巴巴掌控该公司在中国的部分业务，而制度安排将确保外来者在决定阿里巴巴董事会成员方面没有发言权。