HONG KONG – Alibaba and Yunfeng Capital, a private equity company controlled by Alibaba’s founder, Jack Ma, agreed to acquire a combined 18.5 percent stake in Youku Tudou, which broadcasts a series of popular television programs and other videos over the Internet.
香港——阿里巴巴和阿里巴巴创始人马云控制的私募股权公司云峰基金同意购买优酷土豆共计18.5%的股份，后者是一家在互联网上播放一系列流行电视节目和其他视频的公司。
Alibaba will acquire a 16.5 percent stake in Youku Tudou while Yunfeng is taking a 2 percent stake, buying a total of 707 million new shares and 13.8 million existing shares at a price equal to $30.50 a share of the company’s New York-listed stock. That is about 26 percent above the $24.14 level at which Youku Tudou’s American depositary shares closed on Friday.
阿里巴巴将购入优酷土豆16.5%的股份，云峰基金则将购入2%。两家公司将以相当于每美股存托凭证（折合18股普通股）30.50美元（约合190元人民币）的价格，总计购入7.07亿股新普通股和优酷土豆在纽约上市的1380万股现有普通股票。相较于优酷土豆美股存托凭证周五24.14美元的收盘价，溢价约26%。
Alibaba is moving forward with plans for an initial public offering in the United States that could be bigger than Facebook‘s $16 billion listing two years ago. The investment in Youku Tudou comes as Chinese regulators are paying closer attention to online video content. Over the weekend, Beijing ordered websites to stop broadcasts of four popular American television programs.
阿里巴巴正在推进在美国首次公开募股的计划，其融资规模将超过Facebook两年前的160亿美元。投资优酷土豆之际，中国监管机构正在对在线视频内容寄予更加密切的关注。上周末，北京方面下令网站停播四部广受欢迎的美剧。
Shares in Youku Tudou jumped last month after Chinese news reports said Tencent, a giant Chinese social messaging and video game company that is Alibaba’s biggest rival, would pay more than $300 million for a 20 percent stake. But no deal was announced, and Youku Tudou said at the time that it would not comment on the speculation.
上月，中国的新闻报道称，阿里巴巴最大的对手、中国社交通讯和电子游戏巨头腾讯将出资超过3亿美元购买优酷土豆20%的股份，优酷土豆的股价随之跃升。不过，无人宣布达成相关协议，而优酷土豆当时表示，对这一猜测无可奉告。
Alibaba and Tencent have been locked in a battle of buyouts in recent months, with each company making acquisitions to expand into the other’s core business area.
最近几个月，阿里巴巴和腾讯一直在进行收购大战，两家公司均进行了多次收购，进军对方的核心业务领域。
Tencent agreed on March 10 to pay $215 million for a 15 percent stake in JD.com, which is China’s No. 2 e-commerce company, after Alibaba. Alibaba fired back the next day, saying it would pay about $800 million for a 60 percent stake in ChinaVision, a company that invests in film, television, newspapers and online multimedia businesses in China.
3月10日，腾讯同意以2.15亿美元买下京东5%的股份，后者是仅次于阿里巴巴的中国第二大电商公司。阿里巴巴于次日发动反击，表示要斥资约8亿美元买下ChinaVision60%的股份，后者是一家在中国投资电影、电视、报纸和网络多媒体业务的公司。
As part of Alibaba’s latest deal, its chief executive, Jonathan Lu, will gain a seat on the board of Youku Tudou, which was formed in 2012 when Youku bought Tudou, a rival online television company, in a $1.1 billion deal.
作为阿里巴巴最新交易的部分内容，其首席执行官陆兆禧将获得优酷土豆的董事席位。2012年，优酷斥资11亿美元买下了网络电视领域的竞争对手土豆，优酷土豆由此成立。
The investment by Alibaba “will help us continue to build an immersive cultural entertainment platform that integrates online and offline entertainment,” Victor Koo, the chairman and chief executive of Youku Tudou, said Monday in a statement.
阿里巴巴的投资“将强化优酷土豆作为互联网视频平台的服务和用户体验优势，有助于我们打造一个以互联网视频为基础，线上线下融合的文化娱乐平台”，优酷土豆的董事长兼首席执行官古永锵周一在声明中说。
“We are excited to cooperate and work closely with Victor and his team to support their innovation in this key emerging space as well as accelerate our digital entertainment and video content strategy,” Mr. Ma, Alibaba’s founder, said in the statement. “This is an important strategic initiative that will further extend the Alibaba ecosystem and bring new products and services to Alibaba’s customers.”
“对于和古永锵及他的团队合作，支持他们在这个重要新兴领域的创新，并推动我们的数字娱乐和视频内容政策，我们感到兴奋，”阿里巴巴创始人马云在声明中称，“这是一次重要战略举措，将会进一步扩大阿里巴巴生态系统，为阿里巴巴的用户带来新的产品和服务。”
Youku Tudou is being advised on the deal by Goldman Sachs, while Alibaba is being advised by Morgan Stanley.
优酷土豆这项交易的顾问是高盛(Goldman Sachs)，阿里巴巴的顾问则是摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)。