For weeks, potential investors have wondered who would be in the select inner circle running the Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce giant.
数周来，潜在投资者一直好奇，管理着中国电商巨头阿里巴巴集团的高层核心圈子里会有哪些人。
On Monday, the company publicly disclosed the names of all 27 individuals for the first time, as part of its amended initial public offering prospectus. Among them are several members of its senior management team.
本周一，阿里巴巴首次公布了所有27名合伙人的姓名，作为其修改后的IPO招股书的部分内容。其中一些人是该集团的高管团队成员。
And the company showed another jump in profitability in its latest fiscal quarter.
此外，在最近一个财政季度中，阿里巴巴再次表现出利润大幅攀升。
The revised document is the latest step Alibaba has taken on the road to its highly anticipated market debut, which is on track to become one of the biggest in corporate history. The process has slowly revealed more information about one of China’s biggest Internet players, especially as it continues to battle for dominance against online rivals like Tencent.The identities of the partnership had been one of the biggest questions since Alibaba first filed to go public last month. The individuals, led by Jack Ma, a company founder, will essentially control the online market operator through their ability to nominate a majority of directors.
修改招股书是阿里巴巴在备受期待的上市征程中采取的最新举措。该公司的上市将成为史上规模最大的IPO之一。上市过程让有关这家中国互联网行业顶级玩家的信息慢慢公布了出来，尤其是在它与腾讯等在线竞争对手持续争夺主导地位的当口。自阿里巴巴上月开始提交上市申请以来，合伙人的身份一直是最大的问题之一。以公司创始人马云为首的这些个体合伙人，将通过任命大部分董事的权力，从本质上控制这家电商。
Alibaba’s insistence on the model cost it the chance of listing on the Hong Kong stock exchange, which requires a one-share-per-vote system. But the company has contended that the setup is not as severe as a dual-class stock plan in which founders have a significant voting advantage over others.
因为坚持这种模式，阿里巴巴失去了在要求实行一股一票制的香港交易所上市的机会。但该公司认为，这种模式不及双层持股结构的倾向性严重。在双层持股结构中，相比于其他人，创始人拥有举足轻重的投票优势。
One significant aspect regarding the partners list is that about one quarter of the people are not primarily employed by Alibaba itself, but by the holding company for Alibaba’s sprawling Internet finance businesses, including the online payment processing titan Alipay. That second company, known as Zhejiang Alibaba E-Commerce, will not be included in the forthcoming I.P.O.
阿里巴巴合伙人名单的一个显著特征是，大约四分之一的人实际上并非受雇于集团本身，而是负责阿里巴巴庞大的互联网金融业务的一家控股公司。受理在线支付业务的巨头支付宝即隶属于后者。即将到来的IPO将不包括名为浙江阿里巴巴电子商务有限公司的这家企业。
Alibaba’s decision to give such influential places on its partner committee to people who are not primarily employed by the I.P.O. candidate is partly a reflection of the importance of Alipay, but also the result of a restructuring three years ago that triggered a falling out with Yahoo.
准备上市的阿里巴巴决定把如此具有影响力的合伙人席位交到实际上并非本集团雇员的手中。一方面，这反映了支付宝的重要性，不过另一方面，这也是三年前的结构调整所引发的一个后果。那次改组导致了阿里巴巴和雅虎(Yahoo)之间的激烈争论。
Alipay handled 78 percent of the gross merchandise sales on Alibaba’s Chinese retail websites in the most recent fiscal year, according to Monday’s filing. Including business from Alibaba and external customers, Alipay processed transactions worth $623 billion in the 12 months ended March 31.
根据周一提交的文件，在最近的财年中，阿里巴巴中国零售网站78%的商品销售总额通过支付宝结算。如果把阿里巴巴和外部客户的业务都算在内，在截至今年3月31日前的财年中，支付宝受理了价值6230亿美元（约合3.88万亿元人民币）的交易。
Alipay was previously part of Alibaba, but was transferred out of the e-commerce group in 2011 by Mr. Ma, in a move that raised hackles at Yahoo at the time. Today, Mr. Ma owns nearly half of Zhejiang Alibaba.
支付宝之前曾在阿里巴巴集团旗下，不过2011年，马云把它的所有权转出。此举当时让雅虎颇为愤怒。今天，马云拥有浙江阿里巴巴近一半的股份。
The amended prospectus also listed all of Alibaba’s directors for the first time, beyond Mr. Ma and the executive vice chairman, Joseph C. Tsai. The group includes a Yahoo co-founder, Jerry Yang; Chee Hwa Tung, the first chief executive of Hong Kong after its transfer of control from Britain to China; and J. Michael Evans, a former high-ranking Goldman Sachs banker who was once considered a potential candidate to run the Wall Street firm.
修改后的招股书还首次公布了除马云和阿里巴巴董事局执行副主席蔡崇信(Joseph C. Tsai)之外的所有董事的名单。其成员包括雅虎联合创始人杨致远(Jerry Yang)；香港回归中国之后的首任特首董建华(Chee Hwa Tung)；以及曾在高盛(Goldman Sachs)身居高位、并一度被视为接手这家华尔街投行人选的J·迈克尔·埃文斯(J. Michael Evans)。
The company also disclosed that revenue in the quarter ended March 31 rose 38 percent, to $1.9 billion, from the period a year earlier, while profit rose 31 percent, to nearly $884 million.
阿里巴巴还披露，在截至今年3月31日的季度里，公司的营收同比上涨了38%，达120.31亿元人民币，利润则同比上涨了31%，达到54.51亿元。
Alibaba also disclosed the total value of goods sold on its two main market places, Taobao and Tmall, for the first time. As of March 31, Taobao was far bigger, responsible for 68 percent of items sold on the company’s platforms.
阿里巴巴还首次披露了旗下两个主要的交易平台淘宝和天猫的商品销售总额。淘宝的贡献份额要大得多，截至今年3月31日，淘宝所售商品占到了集团交易平台销售总量的68%。
Other important details, including whether Alibaba will list on the New York Stock Exchange or on the Nasdaq stock market and how much the company will seek in its offering, remain undisclosed.
还有一些重要的细节仍未公布，包括阿里巴巴的上市地点究竟是在纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)还是纳斯达克(Nasdaq)，以及公司的目标筹资额。