The largest technology stock offering in history is looming, but few in Silicon Valley seem to care.
历史上最大一笔科技股发售在即，但硅谷却似乎没人在乎。
The initial public offering expected soon in the United States by Alibaba Group Holding, China’s largest e-commerce company, could well surpass the combined amounts raised in the I.P.O.s of Facebook, Twitter, Google, Amazon, AOL and Yahoo. But unlike the flurry of attention that accompanies high-profile floats by American tech stars, Alibaba’s stock offering has barely registered among the valley’s tech set.
中国最大的电子商务公司阿里巴巴集团即将在美国进行首次公开募股，资金规模可能会超过Facebook、Twitter、谷歌(Google)、亚马逊(Amazon)、AOL和雅虎(Yahoo)等公司首次公开募股所得到的全部数额。然而，不像美国明星科技公司募股所伴随的高度关注那样，阿里巴巴这次募股几乎没有在硅谷的科技圈中引起注意。
San Francisco’s artisanal toast bars have not been abuzz with commentary on Jack Ma, Alibaba’s chairman, and Palo Alto’s Tesla dealerships aren’t bracing for a surge in new buyers. In interviews, a few Silicon Valley investors said they didn’t expect the offering to be a big deal in the markets they follow, though they declined to speak on the record about their apathy.
旧金山的手工面包土司吧里还没有充斥着有关阿里巴巴集团董事局主席马云的议论，而且帕罗奥多的特斯拉(Tesla)汽车专卖店也没有开始准备迎接激增的新顾客。在采访中，一些硅谷投资者说，在他们关心的股市上，阿里巴巴的首次公开募股不是什么大不了的事，但是他们不愿意解释自己的冷淡态度。
The issue isn’t that the valley is ignorant of the rise of Chinese Internet giants. It’s more that American tech firms have long been spurned and surprised by China’s tech market, and many here aren’t sure how to gauge the ambitions of the giants like Alibaba now bent on crossing the Pacific.
问题不是硅谷不了解中国大型互联网公司的崛起。更成问题的是，中国科技市场长期以来一直拒绝美国科技公司，或者令后者吃惊，而硅谷的许多人不知道该如何判断像阿里巴巴这样的巨头的野心，这些中国公司正对太平洋的彼岸虎视眈眈。
“Chinese Internet companies and American Internet companies are eyeing each other’s markets, but they’re very disconnected from one another,” said Yan Anthea Zhang, a professor at the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business at Rice University who closely studies businesses in China.
莱斯大学琼斯商学院(Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business at Rice University)密切研究中国商务的张燕教授说，“中国和美国的互联网公司相互觊觎对方的市场，但两国的公司之间彼此没有联系。”
A decade ago, American tech companies saw an economically emergent China as the next great frontier, a place where new money and users would combine to form the world’s greatest market for their products.
十年前，美国科技公司将新兴的经济体中国视为下一个大前沿，中国的新富人和新用户结合起来，将会为这些美国公司的产品提供世界上最大的市场。
But cultural, political and technological forces buffeted their dreams. While American firms largely failed to make headway in China, a raft of homegrown companies, Alibaba among them, took over vast swaths of the growing Chinese market.
然而，文化、政治以及科技方面的阻力重创了他们的梦想。美国公司在中国基本上没有拿下多少地盘，与此同时，包括阿里巴巴在内的一批中国公司占据了日益增长的中国市场的一大片。
There are now Chinese analogues to Amazon, Google, Facebook, Twitter, eBay and PayPal. American and Chinese firms operate across a vast gulf, each eyeing global domination — and each essentially pretending the other doesn’t exist.
如今，中国有自己版本的亚马逊、谷歌、Facebook、Twitter、eBay和PayPal。这些美国公司和中国的类似公司之间有着巨大的鸿沟，各自都在全球寻求主导地位，且都假装对方不存在。
Alibaba’s gigantic I.P.O. may signal a shift, the end of an era of mutually beneficial provincialism. “They are now going to try to fight more directly in each other’s territory,” Dr. Zhang said. “In both the United States and Chinese markets, we are going to see competition heating up.”
阿里巴巴这次庞大的首次公开募股可能预示着一个转变：对各自有利的排外主义时代即将终结。张燕说，“它们现在要在对方的地盘上更直接地拚杀了。在中国和美国的市场上，我们都将看到更激烈的竞争。”
Before we get to that fight, it’s worth examining how American web companies lost the Chinese market. In 2004, Meg Whitman, then the chief executive of eBay, predicted in an interview with CBS News that the company’s Chinese subsidiary, eBay EachNet, would soon become the auction site’s largest moneymaker.
在讨论新的竞争之前，我们有必要分析一下美国互联网公司是如何丢掉中国市场的。2004年，时任eBay首席执行官的梅格‧惠特曼(Meg Whitman)在接受CBS采访时曾预测，公司的中国分公司易趣网(Eachnet)很快将成为该拍卖网站最大的摇钱树。
At the time, American web companies were initiating a spree of investments and expansion plans in China. Yahoo invested $1 billion in Alibaba in 2005. Amazon purchased Joyo.com, a Chinese e-commerce firm, which was expected to be the vanguard for the retailer’s plans to dominate China.
当时，美国的互联网公司正在中国掀起一场投资和扩张的狂潮。雅虎在2005年向阿里巴巴投资了10亿美元（约合81亿元人民币）。亚马逊收购了中国电子商务公司卓越网，将其视为亚马逊计划占领中国市场的先锋。
But many American tech efforts to expand in China proved fruitless, often because the American companies didn’t understand China.
但是，很多美国科技公司在中国扩张的努力都没有得到多少结果，通常是因为这些美国公司不了解中国。
For example, in its early years, eBay EachNet grew to command more than 70 percent of the Chinese e-commerce market for sales between consumers, as William P. Barnett, a professor at the Stanford Graduate Business School, writes in a fascinating case study on the Chinese e-commerce market.
比如，在其早期，eBay易趣网曾一度占领了中国消费者对消费者的电子商务市场70%以上的份额，斯坦福大学商学院(Stanford Graduate Business School)的威廉姆·P·巴内特(William P. Barnett)教授在关于中国电子商务市场的一份精彩案例分析中这样写道。
Then in 2003, Jack Ma, of Alibaba, started a consumer-to-consumer site, Taobao, that quickly eroded eBay’s lead by relying on a simple, powerful advantage: Ma gave Taobao features that tapped into the nuances of the Chinese market: “EBay may be a shark in the ocean, but I am a crocodile in the Yangtze River,” Mr. Ma once told an interviewer. “If we fight in the ocean, we lose ― but if we fight in the river, we win.”
然而在2003年，阿里巴巴的马云创建了消个人对个人的淘宝网，该网站靠一个简单却强有力的优势，迅速瓦解了eBay的主导地位：马云让淘宝具有那些能利用中国市场的细微差异的特点。马云在一次采访中说，“eBay是大海里的鲨鱼，淘宝则是长江里的鳄鱼，鳄鱼在大海里与鲨鱼搏斗，结果可想而知，我们要把鲨鱼引到长江里来。”
Unlike EachNet (and the American eBay), Mr. Ma’s company did not charge sellers fees to list their merchandise. This appealed to struggling Chinese who were looking to start small side businesses without a huge investment. Taobao also incorporated tech features that resonated with local culture. An online chat baked into the site — again, not available on EachNet — gave users a sense of community that they reported lacking on eBay.
与易趣网(以及美国的eBay)不同的是，马云的公司不向卖家收取商品上架费。这对那些温饱线上的中国人很有吸引力，这些人想用不大的投资搞个做小买卖的副业。淘宝网站还采用了一些响应中国文化特色的技术功能。比如，淘宝网具备在线聊天功能，给用户以社区感，而用户反应这正是eBay所缺少的，因为易趣网不提供聊天功能。
Taobao also let buyers and sellers bargain with one another, and its web design mimicked the departments of offline Chinese retailers, while eBay’s categories were lifted from its American site. And given its international operation in markets with strict laws around trademarks, eBay was also forced to remain wary of counterfeit merchandise appearing on its pages, a concern that Alibaba didn’t have to consider.
淘宝网还让买卖双方可以相互讨价还价，网站的设计模仿了中国实体零售店的分类售货柜台，而eBay的分类则全盘照搬了美国的。另外，由于eBay在许多严格执行商标法的市场中进行国际运作，不得不对出现在其网站上的假冒产品保持警惕，而阿里巴巴则不必担心这一问题。
EBay EachNet’s market share began to plummet, and by around 2007, it was dead in the water. Amazon — with which Taobao and its sister site, TMall, also compete — has been similarly stalled in China; the American online retailer, through its Amazon.cn site, now accounts for less than 1 percent of China’s e-commerce market, according to some estimates.
EBay易趣网的市场份额出现了大幅下降，到2007年前后已是苟延残喘。亚马逊公司在中国也陷入了困境，淘宝网及其姊妹网站天猫网也与亚马逊竞争；据一些人估计，这家通过亚马逊中国网站(Amazon.cn)经营的美国电子商务公司，如今在中国电子商务市场的份额不到1%。
Taobao has become one of the jewels of Alibaba’s empire, accounting for more than 70 percent of the Chinese market for consumer-to-consumer online sales. Altogether, Alibaba has been said to account for four-fifths of online purchases in China.
淘宝网成为阿里巴巴帝国的一颗灿烂明珠，在中国个人对个人电子商务市场上占有70%以上的份额。据报道，阿里巴巴的各个平台加起来，占了中国电子商务市场交易的五分之四。
So far, Alibaba’s approach has been to go slow. The company lately began a string of investments in the United States, including in ShopRunner, an e-commerce company that offers a rival to Amazon’s Prime free-shipping service; and Lyft, a ride-sharing service. WeChat, a messaging application owned by the Chinese web king Tencent, began marketing its app more aggressively to American users this year.
迄今为止，阿里巴巴的策略一直是慢慢来。该公司最近开始在美国进行了一系列的投资，其中包括对ShopRunner的投资，这家电子商务公司提供可以与亚马逊Prime会员享有的免费配送服务相竞争的业务；阿里巴巴还投资了提供搭车服务的Lyft公司。中国互联网巨头腾讯公司旗下的信息交流应用"微信"今年开始大力向美国用户推广。
At the same time, the battle for global Web domination has spread far beyond just home turfs. American and Chinese companies are now increasingly competing over emerging markets in Asia and Africa, where Internet infrastructure is just beginning to roll out, and which may prove to be the next great battleground for global Internet hegemony.
与此同时，争夺全球互联网主导地位的战斗已经蔓延到了本国范围以外的地方。美国和中国的公司对亚洲和非洲新兴市场的竞争，现在正变得愈加激烈，这些地方的互联网基础设施发展刚刚起步，可能会成为争夺国际互联网霸权的下一个大战场。
To ring in that fight, Tencent’s WeChat recently began airing an ad in South Africa featuring a Mark Zuckerberg impersonator weeping on a therapist’s couch over the customers he’s losing to WeChat. The doctor warns the Facebook founder to pipe down — or else he, too, will drop Facebook for the Chinese app.
为了打响这一战，腾讯的微信最近开始在南非播放一则广告，广告中，一个模仿马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)的滑稽演员躺在心理医生的沙发上哭泣，因为微信抢走了自己的用户。医生警告这个Facebook的创始人说，别吵了，不然自己也将放弃Facebook，改用那个中国应用。
Sure, it’s a gimmicky bit of marketing. But maybe the direct approach will finally get American tech giants to pay attention to their Chinese counterparts.
诚然，这是一种市场推销的花招。但这种直接竞争或许最终能让美国科技巨头注意到他们的中国同行。