When Snapchat spurned takeover interest from the likes of Facebook and Google, investors scoffed at the audacity of the photo messaging service. But the start-up may have the last laugh.
当Snapchat毅然拒绝Facebook和Google这样的公司发出的收购邀约时，投资人嘲弄了这个照片讯息服务的狂妄。但笑到最后的，也许是这家创业公司。
Snapchat has held talks to sell a stake to the Alibaba Group, the Chinese Internet giant, people briefed on the matter said on Wednesday.
知情人士在周三说，Snapchat和中国互联网巨头阿里巴巴集团就股权出让进行了谈判。
The negotiations may not lead to a deal, these people said.
他们说，这次洽谈未必一定促成交易。
Evan Spiegel, Snapchat’s founder and chief executive, and Jim Wilkinson, a spokesman for Alibaba, declined to comment on the talks, which were first reported by Bloomberg News. The report put the potential valuation of the financing round at $10 billion.If a deal was reached, it would represent a big bet on the future of Snapchat, the pioneer of disappearing messaging applications. Self-destructing photos and messages have swept across Silicon Valley, catching the attention of tech stalwarts like Facebook, Google and Yahoo.
该公司创始人、首席执行官埃文·斯皮格尔(Ean Spiegel)和阿里巴巴发言人吉姆·威尔金森(Jim Wilkinson)均拒绝就谈判置评。首先报道该消息的是彭博新闻社(Bloomberg News)，称这一轮融资的可能估值为100亿美元。一旦交易达成，将是对Snapchat这个自动消失型聊天应用先行者的未来投下一笔重注。“阅后即焚”的照片和聊天讯息席卷硅谷，引起了Facebook、Google和雅虎(Yahoo)等科技业中坚力量的注意。
But it is Snapchat’s captive audience that is the most enticing part to these Internet giants — the company’s core user demographic is age 13 to 25, with 70 percent of that group being women, Mr. Spiegel has said.
但是对这些互联网巨头来说，Snapchat最诱人的是它那些沉迷的用户——斯皮格尔说，公司的核心用户年龄分布在13到25岁之间，其中70%是女性。
Facebook, in particular, has tried — and failed — to mimic the popularity of Snapchat’s ephemeral photo sharing service. The company introduced a similar mobile app, Poke, which failed to catch on with the mainstream. Earlier this week, Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, rolled out its own separate photo-messaging app in a handful of countries.
尤其是Facebook，本身尝试过将Snapchat阅后即焚的热门照片分享服务复制过来，但是失败了。该公司推出的类似移动应用Poke未能获得主流的认可。本周早些时候，Facebook旗下的Instagram在一些国家推出了一款单独的照片聊天应用。
Thus far, Snapchat seems to be the leader in the space. The company does not share its user numbers, but the application has been among the top 25 most downloaded apps in the Apple App Store in the United States for the past year, according to App Annie, a mobile analytics company.
目前来看，Snapchat在这个领域应该是领先的。公司没有透露用户数据，但移动分析公司App Annie的数据显示，Snapchat的应用下载量去年在美国的苹果应用商店排进了前25位。
As of last November, Snapchat users sent one another more than 700 million “snaps,” or disappearing photo and video messages, on a daily basis, according to the company.
据公司给出的数据，在去年十一月，Snapchat用户每天相互发出的“snap”——也就是会自动消失的照片和视频讯息——超过了7亿条。
What the company doesn’t have yet are robust revenues. It has focused instead on attracting more users to its service.
而公司目前缺的是强劲的营收。它一直把注意力放在吸引更多的用户上。
That may be fine for Alibaba, which has increasingly stepped up its venture capital investments as it prepares for one of the most anticipated initial public offerings in recent memory. The Chinese Internet giant is expected to make its market debut — which could value the company at more than $200 billion — in September, people briefed on those plans have said.
这对阿里巴巴来说可能不成问题，为了准备近年来最受瞩目的首次公开募股，该公司正在加大风险投资的力度。这家中国互联网巨头的估值可能超过了2000亿美元，据了解计划的人说，公司有望在九月在市场上亮相。
Even before the stock sale, Alibaba has taken stakes in a number of start-ups, as it seeks to make inroads into mobile apps, an area where it has been been trying to catch up. Over the past year or so, Alibaba has taken stakes in Sina Corporation’s Weibo, a popular Chinese equivalent to Twitter, as well as the messaging app Tango.
即便在上市之前，有意进入移动应用市场的阿里巴巴就已经开始入股一些创业公司了，这是它一直想要追赶的一个领域。过去几年里，阿里巴巴已经入股新浪集团的微博——一个受欢迎的中国版Twitter，此外还有聊天应用Tango。
Behind the drive, in part, is the e-commerce colossus’ ongoing competition with rivals like Tencent, a fellow Chinese giant whose WeChat messaging service has steadily grown in popularity.
该电商巨无霸此举的其中一个目的是继续和腾讯等对手展开竞争，后者同为中国重量级企业，旗下的微信聊天服务一直在稳步普及。