Even as the Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce juggernaut, moves closer to one of the most anticipated initial public offerings in recent history, potential investors are wondering about the future of its ties to its online payments affiliate, Alipay.
中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团即将进行近年来最受期待的首次公开募股(IPO)之际，潜在投资者正密切关注该公司与其在线支付关联公司支付宝的关系走向。
On Tuesday, Alibaba disclosed in a public filing that it had reworked its connection with the affiliate — and that it should reap billions of dollars from that relationship in the future.
周二，阿里巴巴在一份公开文件中披露，已经调整了与这家关联公司的关系——未来将从这一关系中获益数十亿美元。
The moves come roughly a month before the Chinese Internet giant, which combines elements of eBay, Amazon and Google, is expected to make its market debut on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock sale could raise more than $20 billion, becoming one of the biggest in years and valuing the company at potentially more than $200 billion. That value would exceed those of several American tech giants like Oracle and Amazon.
阿里巴巴采取上述行动的同时，这家中国互联网巨头预计将于约1个月之后在纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)上市。阿里巴巴是兼具eBay、亚马逊(Amazon)和谷歌(Google)性质的一个综合体。这次股票发行可能会筹集逾200亿美元资金，成为近几年来规模最大的IPO之一，公司市值可能高达逾2000亿美元，超过甲骨文(Oracle)和亚马逊等一些美国科技巨头的估值。
Behind potential investors’ enthusiasm for the offering is the prospect of buying a piece of the Chinese Internet industry, whose incredible growth has been driven by an immense population that is finally coming online.
潜在投资者对这次IPO的巨大热情，源于期待从中国互联网行业分一杯羹。大量人口刚刚开始接触互联网，这助推了中国互联网行业的惊人增长，
Since first filing offering documents in the spring, Alibaba has kept would-be buyers and analysts on tenterhooks as it offered a closer look at its e-commerce operations. Yet all the same, investors have wondered whether the company would try to strengthen its ties to its affiliate Alipay, which processes payments for its Taobao and Tmall online marketplaces.
自从春天首次提交上市文件以来，由于提供了近距离观察其电商业务的机会，阿里巴巴吸引了大量潜在买家和分析师的关注。然而，投资者还是想知道，阿里巴巴是否会尝试加强与子公司支付宝的关系。支付宝是阿里巴巴旗下的淘宝和天猫网上商城的支付平台。
In an amended prospectus, Alibaba said that it planned to sell its small-business loan operations to the parent of Alipay for $518 million, effectively shedding the last of its big finance-related units.
在经过修订的招股说明书中，阿里巴巴表示，计划以5.18亿美元的价格将小企业贷款业务出售给支付宝的母公司，这实际上是剥离了最后一个规模较大的金融相关部门。
In return, instead of collecting roughly half of the pretax income of Alipay alone, it will reap 37.5 percent of the entire financial business, including the small-business loans and current and future operations like asset management and insurance.
作为回报，阿里巴巴不会单单向支付宝收取大约一半的税前收入，而是将收取整个金融业务税前收入的37.5%，包括小企业贷款，以及资产管理和保险等现有及未来的业务。
(Among Alipay’s other businesses is Yu’e Bao, a money-market fund that claims more than $80 billion in assets.)And should Alipay go public at some point, Alibaba stands to make more from that stock sale. Before Tuesday’s agreement, the e-commerce company would have collected $2 billion to $6 billion from the online payment company’s I.P.O. Now, it will receive at least $9.38 billion, with no cap on the proceeds.
（支付宝的其中一个业务是余额宝，这是一支货币市场基金，声称拥有超过800亿美元的资产。）此外，如果支付宝上市，阿里巴巴也将从股票发行中获得更多收益。在周二的协议之前，这家电商企业本来会从支付宝的IPO中获得20亿到60亿美元的收益。如今，这个数字至少为93.8亿美元，上不封顶。
Perhaps most interesting in the new agreement is that Alibaba now says that it has the right to buy up to 33 percent of Alipay’s parent company if such an arrangement wins the blessing of the Chinese government.
新协议中最有趣的部分可能是，阿里巴巴表示，如果中国政府同意，自己有权收购支付宝母公司多达33%的股份。
It is unclear whether Alipay’s parent, the Small and Micro Financial Services Company, will go public, or, if regulators allow it, be folded back into Alibaba.
目前还不清楚，支付宝的母公司小微金融服务集团(Small and Micro Financial Services Company)是否会上市，以及如果监管机构同意，它是否会重新回到阿里巴巴集团。
The complex agreement helps bring somewhat closer together Alibaba and Alipay, which separated three years ago with some controversy. Alibaba’s main founder and chairman, Jack Ma, split off the business because of what he said were government rules controlling foreign ownership of financial institutions. He now owns just under 50 percent of the payments company.
这份复杂的协议或多或少地让阿里巴巴与支付宝的关系变得更加紧密。三年前，两家公司在争议中解除了关系。阿里巴巴的主要创始人和董事局主席马云说，之所以把支付宝拆分出去，是因为政府控制金融机构外资持股比例的规定。马云目前在支付宝持有的股份略低于50%。
Yahoo, Alibaba’s biggest investor, protested. A fierce squabble ensued, though it was eventually settled with a “framework agreement” that governed how Alipay was tied to its former parent — the pact that was updated on Tuesday.
阿里巴巴的最大投资者雅虎(Yahoo)曾对此表示反对。在激烈的争执之后，这场争议最终以“一份框架协议”达成了和解。协议规定了支付宝与前母公司的关系。周二更新的就是这份协议。
As part of the agreement, Mr. Ma has agreed to reduce his stake in Alipay to eventually match his roughly 8.9 percent holdings in Alibaba itself, though he will not earn any money from that move.
作为协议的一部分，马云同意减持支付宝的股份，直到与他在阿里巴巴的8.9%的股份在同一水平，不过他不会从中获得任何收益。