LONDON — The Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group said on Wednesday that it would not allow the sale of Bitcoins on its website.
伦敦——中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团周三表示，公司不允许在旗下网站销售比特币。
Alibaba becomes the latest in a growing chorus of governments and businesses to raise questions about Bitcoin, which has seen its value rise dramatically as more people embrace virtual currency.
政府和企业纷纷对比特币提出质疑，阿里巴巴是最新的一个。随着更多人开始接受虚拟货币，比特币的价值大幅攀升。
“In the interest of consumer protection, Taobao Marketplace has banned the listing or sale of Bitcoins over the platform,” said Florence Shih, an Alibaba spokeswoman.
“为了保护消费者，淘宝商城禁止在商城平台上展卖或销售比特币，”阿里巴巴女发言人施致瑀(Florence Shih)说。
Bitcoin wasn’t an accepted form of payment on the website; the vast majority of transactions are processed through Taobao’s Alipay system. But some merchants still offered to accept Bitcoin as payments for their products or sold the virtual currency. The ban goes in effect on Jan. 14.
该网站不接受比特币支付，绝大部分交易都是通过淘宝的支付宝系统进行。不过，部分商家依然表示接受比特币支付，或者依然在销售比特币。前述禁令将于1月14日生效。
The announcement comes as Alibaba is considering an initial public offering as early as this year. Wall Street is anticipating that the Chinese company could be valued at more than $150 billion.
宣布这一禁令之际，阿里巴巴正在考虑上市，上市时间最早可在今年。华尔街预计，这家中国公司的上市估值可能会超过1500亿美元（约合9100亿元人民币）
Alibaba’s decision also follows a move by China last month to ban the nation’s banks from accepting Bitcoins as a currency over concerns about potential money laundering and its potential threat to financial stability.
阿里巴巴的决定还与中国官方的一个举措紧密相随。由于担忧比特币可能会被用于洗钱，还可能对金融稳定性构成威胁，中国官方于上个月采取行动，禁止国有银行接受比特币为货币。
In a notice in December, the People’s Bank of China and other agencies said that Bitcoin was “not a currency in the real meaning of the word” but rather was a “virtual commodity that does not share the same legal status of a currency.” The notice went on, “Nor can, or should, it be circulated or used in the marketplace as a currency.”
在去年12月的一则通告中，中国人民银行和其他一些机构表示，比特币“不是真正意义的货币”，而是“一种特定的虚拟商品，不具有与货币等同的法律地位”。通告继续说，“（比特币）不能且不应作为货币在市场上流通使用”。
Bitcoin was created in 2009 and has a limited supply. As a result, the price of those units has increased as investors have bet on a continued growing demand for the virtual currency.
比特币创生于2009年，供应量有限。这种虚拟货币的价格由此上扬，因为投资者纷纷下注，赌人们对它的需求会持续增长。