Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, has invested $200 million in Snapchat, according to three people with knowledge of the deal’s terms.
据了解交易条款的三位人士说，中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴已向Snapchat投资2亿美元（约合12.5亿元人民币）。
Alibaba’s investment values Snapchat, a three-and-a-half-year-old messaging start-up, at $15 billion, according to one of these people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
据这些要求不具名的人士说，阿里巴巴的投资使三年半前成立的创业公司Snapchat的估值达150亿美元。
It is a giant sum for Snapchat, a smartphone app that lets users send disappearing photos, videos and text messages to one another, and places the young company squarely among the most richly valued private tech companies in Silicon Valley.
对Snapchat来说，这是一笔巨额投资。Snapchat是一个智能手机应用软件，它让用户能互相发送看后自行消失的照片、视频和短信。此估值让这家年轻公司毫不含糊地跻身硅谷未上市技术公司中最有价值的行列。
Many young Internet start-ups, some of which have produced little to no revenue, are raising hundreds of millions of dollars at soaring valuations. Nextdoor, a social networking company, recently raised $110 million at a $1.1 billion valuation, though the company does not make any money.
许多年轻的互联网创业公司正募得数以亿计美元的投资，估值不断飙高，其中一些公司几乎或完全没有营收。社交网络公司Nextdoor最近募得1.1亿美元的投资，使其估值达到了11亿美元，尽管该公司还没有赚到任何钱。
Snapchat may have even grander ideas about its own worth. The company has recently fielded investment offers that could value the company at $19 billion, according to a person with knowledge of the discussions. That valuation is nearly double the amount that it sought less than one year ago.
Snapchat也许对自身的价值有更宏伟的设想。据一位知情人士的说法，该公司最近已考虑过投资者提交的能让该公司估值达190亿美元的计划书。这一估值几乎是公司一年前寻求投资时估值的两倍。
Alibaba’s $200 million investment, which was first reported by Bloomberg, was not part of these recent talks, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.
阿里巴巴2亿美元的投资由彭博社(Bloomberg)首先报道，据一位了解交易的人说，这笔投资不在公司最近讨论的计划范围之内。
But the two companies have long sought to work together in some capacity, having spoken in the past about a potential investment.
这两家公司一直在寻求某种程度的合作，过去曾洽谈过投资可能性。
The investment gives Alibaba, whose e-commerce business dominates the Chinese consumer Internet, a chance to tap into a hot Western company on the rise. It is another in a spree of investments in Western start-ups for Alibaba; last year, the company poured tens of millions of dollars into Tango, a messaging app, and invested more than $100 million in Kabam, a popular mobile game studio. The investments, insiders say, give Alibaba new inroads into Silicon Valley and, potentially, the early chance to spot — and invest in — the next hot start-up.
阿里巴巴的电子商务在中国消费者互联网占主导地位，这笔投资将让阿里巴巴有机会打入一个正在崛起的西方热门公司。这是阿里巴巴对西方创业公司一连大举投资中的又一笔；去年，阿里巴巴曾向聊天应用软件公司Tango倾注了数千万美元，还向一个流行的移动游戏工作室Kabam投资了逾1亿美元。业内人士说，这些投资是阿里巴巴进军硅谷的桥头堡，使其获得发现、并投资下一个热门创业公司的潜在早期机会。
For Snapchat, working with Alibaba could give the young company valuable insight into China, a valuable market teeming with more than 1.3 billion potential customers.
从Snapchat的角度来看，与阿里巴巴合作可能会让这家年轻公司得到对中国市场的宝贵见地——中国是一个拥有逾13亿潜在用户的有价值的市场。
Snapchat gained some early notoriety as a place where young users can send nude photos to one another, though its founders, Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy, have maintained this is not the intended purpose of the app.
因为年轻用户能用Snapchat软件互相发送裸照，公司的早期名声不怎么样，但公司创始人埃文·斯皮格尔(Evan Spiegel)和鲍比·墨菲(Bobby Murphy)一直坚称，那不是软件设计的目的。
Recently, Snapchat has made many internal changes that have positioned it as a platform for watching rich media content. In January, Snapchat introduced a new product called Discover, a section of the app where users can watch daily original content provided by companies like CNN, Vice, National Geographic and a handful of others.
Snapchat近来已做了许多内部调整，把自己定位为观看丰富媒体内容的平台。今年一月，Snapchat推出了一款名为Discover的新产品，通过应用软件的这个部分，用户可以观看像CNN、Vice、国家地理(National Geographic)，以及几个其他公司每日提供的原创内容。