Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce company, has a new partner in rooting out products deemed unsafe for American consumers, but the cooperation could also bring it more headaches.
中国电商企业阿里巴巴有了一个新伙伴，帮助其根除那些被认为对美国消费者不安全的产品，但相关合作也可能会给该公司带来更多令人头痛的事情。
The company, which listed its shares in New York in September, is teaming up with a United States government agency to prevent its online platforms from exporting items to America that have been recalled. The agreement is likely to have its largest effects on Alibaba’s business-to-business site, which sells goods produced by Chinese manufacturers to American importers and businesses.
9月在纽约上市的阿里巴巴正在与美国一家政府机构合作，以防止其在线平台向美国出口已被召回的货物。阿里巴巴旗下企业对企业的网站可能是受相关协议影响最大的，该网站主要面向美国进口商和企业销售中国厂家生产的商品。
The agency, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, said it would provide Alibaba lists of recalled items, and in turn, Alibaba said it would ensure that those products were not for sale to companies or individuals in America. Alibaba has a small business facilitating the sale of goods to American consumers.
参与合作的政府机构美国消费品安全委员会(Consumer Product Safety Commission)表示，将向阿里巴巴提供被召回产品名录，而阿里巴巴则表示将确保不面向美国的企业或个人销售相关产品。阿里巴巴旗下有一家小公司专门负责促进面向美国消费者的商品销售。
The commission’s chairman, Elliot F. Kaye, cited the recall last year of high-powered magnets being sold as toys in the United States, noting that recently some companies on Alibaba’s sites had sold the magnets wholesale.
该委员会主席埃利奥特·F·凯(Elliot F. Kaye)提到了去年在美国被当做玩具销售的高性能磁铁被召回一事，并指出最近，阿里巴巴网站上的部分公司在以批发的方式销售这种磁铁。
Mr. Kaye said the new cooperation would help ensure that listings for dangerous items like the magnets — which were recalled because of a number of instances in which children ingested them, frequently necessitating surgery — would no longer be purposely or inadvertently imported by smaller United States companies.
凯表示，新展开的合作将有助于确保美国小企业不再进口——不管是有意还是无意——像前述磁铁那样的危险物品。前述高性能磁铁之所以被召回，是因为发生了一些事故，儿童吞下磁铁，常常需要进行手术。
The cooperation serves as a test for Alibaba, which despite taking steps to clean up its e-commerce sites, retains a reputation for selling just about any product — brand, fake or occasionally dangerous.
合作是对阿里巴巴的一次考验。尽管采取了诸多举措整顿旗下的电商网站，但阿里巴巴依然因为几乎什么产品都卖而声名远扬，其网站上有品牌货，也有假货，偶尔还会有危险物品。
It is also a risk. If the company fails to live up to its end of the bargain, Mr. Kaye said the commission would not hesitate to pressure the company.
此举也有风险。如果阿里巴巴未能信守承诺，凯表示该委员会将毫不犹豫地迫使其就范。
Though Alibaba said last month that it spent about $160 million combating the sale of fake goods on its sites in 2013 and 2014, many companies complain that Alibaba can be slow to pull down listings of pirated goods. Others point out that removed listings often quickly reappear under different names.
阿里巴巴上月表示，该公司在2013年和2014年投入了超过10亿元人民币，打击旗下网站上的假货交易，但还是有许多公司不满于阿里巴巴打击盗版产品时行动迟缓。还有一些公司指出，被撤下的产品往往很快又会换个名字重新出现。
“We’re certainly going to hold their feet to the fire,” Mr. Kaye said on Tuesday at the Hong Kong Toys and Games Fair.
“我们肯定会让他们感到有压力，”凯周二在香港玩具展(Hong Kong Toys and Games Fair)上说。
Mr. Kaye said the agency would start with a list of five to 15 products at the top of the regulator’s priority list, then expand it. The commission, which first approached Alibaba about cooperation roughly two years ago, expects problematic items to be taken down in a matter of hours, he said.
凯表示，消费品安全委员会首先会提供一份名单，上面会列出该机构重点强调的五到十五种产品，然后再扩充名单。他说，大概两年前，委员会首次就合作事宜找到了阿里巴巴。该委员会希望问题商品在几小时之内下架。
“We’re not a very patient lot, and if it doesn’t happen pretty quickly, then they’ll be hearing from us,” he said, adding that he hoped an automated system could be worked out.
“我们可不是一群有耐心的人，如果事情未能很快得到处理，他们就会了解到我们的应对措施，”他说。他还表示希望能制定一个自动化系统。