Alibaba just can’t stop tinkering with its corporate structure.
阿里巴巴调整公司结构实在停不下来。
Weeks before the Chinese e-commerce juggernaut is set to start a roadshow for an initial public offering, it has tidied up relations with its payments affiliate. Though the new arrangement is still messier than shareholders might want, it should make for a neater initial public offering.
这家中国电子商务巨头几周后就要开始为首次公开募股(IPO)进行路演，此时它却调整了与支付关联公司的关系。尽管依然比股东可能的期望更混乱，但新安排应该会有助于让该公司的IPO更为清晰。
Alibaba’s relationship with Alipay is complex and sensitive. The unit processes more than three-quarters of the transactions on the Chinese company’s websites, but it has been owned by a private vehicle controlled by founder Jack Ma since 2011. That business, known as Small and Micro Financial Services Company, or S.M.F.S.C., is also home to other ventures like its fast-growing money market funds. For customers, the units connect seamlessly. The corporate links are more complicated.
阿里巴巴与支付宝(Alipay)之间的关系既复杂又敏感。阿里巴巴旗下网站的交易中，超过四分之三是由支付宝受理的，但从2011年开始，支付宝的所有人，却是阿里巴巴创始人马云控制的一家私营公司。这家名为小微金融服务集团的公司还拥有其他一些项目，如旗下增长迅速的货币市场基金。对消费者而言，这些实体之间实现了无缝连接。集团内部的关系却更为复杂。
The latest reshuffle aims to draw a clearer line between the two entities. Alibaba will focus on e-commerce, while S.M.F.S.C. will stick to finance. As part of the deal, Alibaba is handing its affiliate a portfolio of loans to small- and midsize enterprises. The transfer helps to reduce the risk of meddling by Chinese financial regulators.
最新调整旨在让两大实体之间的界限更清晰。阿里巴巴将把重点放在电子商务上，而小微金服将专门从事金融业务。作为协议的一部分，阿里巴巴正在将一系列中小企业贷款业务转交给这家关联公司。这一转让有助于减少受到中国金融监管机构干涉的风险。
Under the old arrangement, Alibaba received 49.9 percent of Alipay’s pretax profit. The new deal entitles Alibaba to 37.5 percent of everything S.M.F.S.C. brings in before tax. Alibaba thinks the claim on the earnings of a bigger business more than compensates for its reduced share. Its accountants calculate that the restructuring has increased the company’s value by roughly 1.3 billion yuan ($211 million). However, it is hard for outsiders to be sure because Alibaba does not tell them anything about the affiliate’s finances. Besides, Alibaba admits that if the new arrangement had been in place for the last fiscal year, its net income would have been slightly lower.
根据原来的安排，阿里巴巴能够取得支付宝税前利润的49.9%。这项新协议使阿里巴巴能够获得小微金服所有税前利润的37.5%。阿里巴巴认为，虽然利润分享的比例减少了，但是现在它能从一家规模更大的公司分成，权衡下来后者更为有利。阿里巴巴的会计人员计算，重组使公司的价值提升了大约13亿元（2.11亿美元）。然而，外部人士仍然难以确认这些信息，因为阿里巴巴不会向他们披露这家关联公司的任何财务状况。此外，阿里巴巴还承认，如果新的安排上一财年就已实行，其净收益就会略微降低。