The Alibaba Group, the Chinese Internet juggernaut, raised nearly $21.8 billion in its initial stock sale on Thursday, as investors flocked to buy a piece of the company that is poised to continue dominating China’s burgeoning e-commerce industry.
周四，中国互联网巨头阿里巴巴进行首次公开募股(IPO)，筹得将近218亿美元（约合1338亿元人民币），这家打算继续称霸中国快速增长的电子商务产业的公司，引来投资者争相入股。
The company priced its shares at $68 each, at the top end of an already raised range. At that level, the online market operator will have a market value of about $168 billion — much more than eBay, Twitter and LinkedIn combined.
该公司将股价定为每股68美元，也就是此前定价区间的上限。根据这一定价计算，这家网络市场运营商的市值将达到大约1680亿美元，远远超过 eBay、Twitter和LinkedIn的总市值。
Though it did not claim the title of biggest initial public offering ever, Alibaba will still lay claim to having held one of the biggest stock sales on record, surpassing offerings from  Facebook and General Motors. It made its final decision about the price of its shares after a series of meetings at the Midtown Manhattan offices of Citigroup, one of its underwriters.
虽然没有宣称这是史上最大规模的IPO交易，但阿里巴巴表示他们开展的股票交易是史上规模最大的交易之一，超过了Facebook和通用汽车公司(General Motors)的股票交易。阿里巴巴在其承销商花旗集团(Citigroup)位于曼哈顿中城(Midtown Manhattan)的办公室召开了一系列会议后，就股价做出最终决定。
Alibaba could still raise more money if its underwriters make use of an overallotment option, known in industry parlance as a “green shoe,” to sell more shares, potentially moving it into the top spot for I.P.O.s.
如果承销商行使超额配售选择权，出售更多股票，也就是行业内所说的“绿鞋”，阿里巴巴可以筹集更多资金，有机会把公司送上IPO榜的头名位置。
When it begins trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday, Alibaba will complete a journey to prove itself one of the world’s biggest Internet behemoths. Since it first filed to go public this spring, potential investors have salivated over the chance to buy even a small piece of a 15-year-old company that has become an amalgam of Amazon.com, eBay, Google and a slew of other technology giants.
阿里巴巴于周五开始在纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)上市，公司为证明自己是世界最大互联网巨头之一的行动告一段落。自阿里巴巴在今年春天首次申请上市以来，潜在的投资者纷纷渴望能够购得该公司股权，甚至是一小部分也可以，这家已有15年历史的公司集合了亚马逊(Amazon.com)、 eBay,、谷歌(Google)及其他很多技术行业巨头的特色。
The stock sale also marks a coming of age of the Internet in China, a country with nearly 1.4 billion, less than half of whom venture online. Alibaba’s main pitch to investors in a globe-spanning roadshow over the past two weeks has been the enormous potential wealth that can be made as more Chinese citizens log onto the Internet and shop for goods.
此次股票销售还标志着中国互联网一个时代的到来，中国有大约14亿人口，网络用户不到7亿。在过去两周的全球路演中，阿里巴巴主要向投资者宣传的是，随着越来越多的中国人开始网购，集团有望从中获得的巨大财富。
A lunch presentation held for potential investors last week at the luxurious Waldorf-Astoria hotel in Midtown Manhattan drew more than 800 attendees eager to hear directly from the company’s top management. By late last week, the six lead underwriters for the enormous offering announced that they would close the order books slightly earlier than scheduled, after having received a huge number of sizable orders.
上周，阿里巴巴在曼哈顿中城豪华的华道夫-阿斯多利亚酒店(Waldorf-Astoria)举行了午餐推介活动，吸引了超过800人出席，他们渴望直接聆听阿里巴巴高管的声音。上周末，这次规模庞大的IPO的六家主承销商宣布，在收到了大量规模可观的订单之后，将比原定时间稍早结束对股票的认购。
Such was the enthusiasm that one hedge fund with $3 billion in assets placed a multibillion-dollar order, hoping to receive even a fraction of that amount, a person briefed on the matter has said.
知情者说，投资者热情之高，令一家管理着30亿美元资产的对冲基金抛出了数十亿美元的订单，希望获得哪怕只是少量的阿里巴巴股票。
But Alibaba has aimed to stock its investor base with big mutual funds like Fidelity, BlackRock and T. Rowe Price, whom the company and its advisers believe will stick around for the long term and not run at the first sign of trouble.
但阿里巴巴希望投资者中包括一些大型的共同基金，比如富达(Fidelity)、贝莱德(BlackRock)和普信(T. Rowe Price)，阿里巴巴及其顾问认为，这些共同基金将长期持有其股票，不会一有风吹草动就撤资。
Alibaba’s offering will have minted a number of new billionaires. Chief among them is Jack Ma, the former English teacher who founded the company in 1999 with dreams of becoming an Internet millionaire. Thanks to the stock sale, the slight but intense Mr. Ma will have raised $867 million by selling a portion of his shares, with his remaining holdings now worth $13.2 billion.
伴随着阿里巴巴上市将诞生几位新的亿万富翁。首当其冲的就是马云，曾是英语教师的马云于1999年创办了阿里巴巴集团，当时的梦想是成为互联网行业的百万富翁。由于这次股票销售，身材瘦小却干劲十足的马云通过售出部分股份，将获得8.67亿美元，他的剩余股份的价值约为132亿美元。