SHANGHAI — The financial services affiliate of the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group closed a private placement of shares on Friday that the company said values it at more than $45 billion and makes the Chinese government a stakeholder, according to people familiar with the transaction.
上海——中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团旗下的蚂蚁金融服务集团周五完成了一笔融资。知情人士透露，该公司称，此次交易对它的估值超过450亿美元，中国政府的利益也参与其中。
The company, the Ant Financial Services Group, is a financial powerhouse in China, with over 400 million customers. It operates Alipay, the country’s dominant online payment platform; a private Internet bank called MYbank; a huge microloan unit and China’s largest money market fund, Yu’e Bao, which manages more than $150 billion in assets.
蚂蚁金服在中国金融领域势头强劲，有超过4亿客户。该公司经营着中国主导的在线支付平台支付宝(Alipay)、民营互联网银行浙江网商银行(MYbank)、一家规模巨大的小额贷款部门，以及中国规模最大的货币市场基金余额宝。余额宝管理着超过1500亿美元资产。
And now, with a new collection of state-backed investors, Ant Financial is also one of the world’s most valuable technology companies, alongside the American car-hailing service Uber and the Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi, each of which has been valued at close to $50 billion.
如今在得到一批国家背景的投资者支持后，蚂蚁金服成为了世界上估值最高的科技企业之一，与美国的招车服务优步(Uber)和中国的智能手机厂商小米相当，后两者估值均接近500亿美元。
In a statement released on Friday, Ant Financial said it had completed an early, so-called Series A round of financing that was led by the National Social Security Fund of China, one of the country’s biggest state funds. Ant Financial said it sold a total 12.4 percent stake in itself.
在周五发布的声明中，蚂蚁金服表示，已经完成了最初的首轮融资，投资者以全国社保基金为首。社保基金是中国规模最大的国有基金之一。蚂蚁金服称，共售出了该公司12.4%的股份。
A spokeswoman for Ant Financial declined to give a detailed list of investors or the amount of money each invested. But a Chinese government website published a list, and it included many state-owned companies, including China Life Insurance, China Pacific Insurance, New China Life, the People’s Insurance Company of China and an affiliate of China Development Bank.
蚂蚁金服的一位女发言人拒绝透露投资者的详细名单，也不愿透露各投资者的投资金额。然而一家中国政府网站发布了一份名单，其中包括许多国有企业，如中国人寿、太平洋保险、新华保险、中国人保，以及国家开发银行的一家关联公司。
Ant Financial is controlled by Mr. Ma, but is also 37 percent owned by Alibaba, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Ma said he spun off Ant Financial from Alibaba in 2011 because of Chinese rules that were set to restrict foreign ownership of financial services entities.
蚂蚁金服由马云控制，不过该公司37%的股份由阿里巴巴持有，后者是纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)的上市公司。由于中国监管规则限制外资拥有金融服务实体，马云在2011年将蚂蚁金服从阿里巴巴集团剥离。
State backing could be critical for Ant Financial because China’s banking and financial services industry is dominated by government firms, some of which have tried to block private entities from entering the market.
国有投资者的支持对于蚂蚁金服十分关键，因为中国的银行业和金融服务业是由政府的企业主导的，其中一些还曾尝试阻挠私营实体进入这块市场。
A group of private investors also joined the Series A round, including funds affiliated with Yunfeng Capital, a private equity firm co-founded by Jack Ma, who also founded Alibaba.
一些私人投资者也加入了首轮融资，包括阿里巴巴创始人马云共同创立的私募基金云锋基金(Yunfeng Capital)。
Analysts say Ant Financial’s valuation is huge because it had an early start in online payments and because it is already a dominant player in China.
分析人士表示，蚂蚁金服的估值很高是因为它在在线支付领域占得先机，而且在中国已经成了处于主导地位的企业。
“This is really just the beginning,” said Chi Tsang, an Internet analyst who covers Alibaba for HSBC in Hong Kong. “When and if they go public, they could be worth a lot more. This is a very unique animal in China.”
关注阿里巴巴的汇丰银行(HSBC)驻香港互联网分析师曾弛（Chi Tsang，音）指出，“这真的才只是一个开始。如果‘蚂蚁’上市，到那时市值会高很多，它在中国是一只独特的动物。”
At the time, Alibaba was largely owned by Yahoo of the United States and SoftBank of Japan. Ant Financial, which then consisted mostly of the operations of the Alipay payment platform that links up to Alibaba, was then registered as a Chinese entity.
目前，美国的雅虎(Yahoo)和日本的软银(SoftBank)会持有阿里巴巴的大部分股份。与阿里巴巴关联的支付平台支付宝的大部分业务，则由蚂蚁金服经营。蚂蚁金服是以中国实体的身份注册的。
The decision to pull Alipay out of the Alibaba Group was widely criticized at the time, but investors continued to back Mr. Ma because of the phenomenal success of Alibaba; its e-commerce platform, Taobao; and the growth of the financial services unit.
将支付宝从阿里巴巴集团剥离的决策，当时受到了广泛的批评。然而由于阿里巴巴及其电子商务平台淘宝，都取得了令人瞩目的成就，旗下的金融服务部门也取得了增长，投资者继续对马云给予了支持。