HONG KONG — Jack Ma has been in the global headlines lately for meeting with President Trump and for discussing world affairs at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. But for the company he founded, the story is still at home.
香港——马云最近因与特朗普总统会面、以及在瑞士达沃斯世界经济论坛上讨论世界事务，出现在全球新闻大标题上。但对于他创办的公司而言，好消息还是来自家里。
On Tuesday, Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce giant, posted strong earnings for its third quarter and beat analysts’ estimates. The quarter, which ended in December, is an essential one for the company: Its biggest sales event of the year is in November.
周二，中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团宣布了其第三季度取得的强劲收益，超过了分析师的估计。结束于去年12月的季度对公司来说非常重要：公司今年最大的销售活动是在11月。
Nonetheless, the results showed how Alibaba — despite Mr. Ma’s global profile and its 2014 initial public offering in the United States — is still dependent on China. The results also demonstrate that while Alibaba’s global ambitions have made progress, they haven’t yet become a major driver of its results.
尽管马云在全球表现出高姿态，以及公司2014年首次在美国公开发行了股票，但这些结果显示，阿里巴巴仍非常依赖中国。这些结果还表明，尽管阿里巴巴已在为实现其全球目标上取得了进展，但其国外的业务尚未成为公司收益的主要驱动力。
Alibaba’s big day
阿里巴巴的重要日子
Of central concern to investors is the durability of Singles Day, a company-created, shopping-oriented “Hallmark holiday” that falls on Nov. 11 each year. While sales growth from that event has steadily slowed, leading the company to pump up entertainment around it, the holiday nonetheless drove earnings growth. In the quarter ending in December, Alibaba said revenue grew 54 percent, compared with the period a year earlier, to $7.7 billion. Net profit rose 38 percent, to nearly $2.5 billion.
投资者最关心的是光棍节的持久性，11月11日的光棍节是公司创建的以购物为导向的“霍尔马克节日”（霍尔马克[Hallmark]公司的主要产品是贺卡，为销售更多的贺卡，公司创建了母亲节、父亲节等节日，译注）。虽然这个日子的销售额增长幅度已在稳步放缓，迫使公司为光棍节大搞娱乐活动，但该节日仍驱动了盈利的增长。阿里巴巴说，在去年12月结束的季度里，收入与去年同期相比增长了54％，达到77亿美元。净利润增长了38％，达到近25亿美元。
Jack Ma: Davos man
马云：达沃斯的人物
At the World Economic Forum in Davos last week, Mr. Ma warned of the dangers of a trade war between the United States and China. With Mr. Trump, he asserted that his company would help create a million jobs in America. (Significantly, details were scant.)
上周在达沃斯举行的世界经济论坛上，马云警告了美国与中国发生贸易战争会带来的危险。他与特朗普会面时声称，他的公司将帮助在美国创造一百万个工作岗位。（重要的是，他没给出多少细节。）
His international appearances underscore a tough truth for Chinese internet companies: While they are often held up domestically as beacons of innovation, they have long struggled to build a market abroad. Alibaba has been trying to break that blockage, yet it has mostly focused on recruiting foreign brands to sell on its sites to Chinese consumers. In its third quarter, only 7 percent of its revenue came from commerce outside China.
他的国际表现凸显了中国互联网公司面临的一个艰难事实：虽然这些公司在国内被捧为创新的灯塔，但它们一直在建立国外市场上困难重重。阿里巴巴一直在试图打破这种困境，但公司的做法主要是吸引外国品牌在其网站上对中国消费者进行销售。公司第三季度的收入中只有7％来自中国以外的商业。
Digital expansion is easier
数码扩展更容易
One important way that Alibaba is looking to build its foreign businesses is by offering computing services to companies, much like Amazon does with Amazon Web Services. To that end, Alibaba has built new data centers around the world. Analysts are also bullish on the company’s cloud revenue, which in its third quarter more than doubled, to $254 million.
阿里巴巴寻求建立国外业务的一个重要方式，是向企业提供计算服务，类似于亚马逊的“亚马逊网上服务”(Amazon Web Services)。为此，阿里巴巴在世界各地建立了新的数据中心。分析人士也看好公司的云计算收入，这项收入在公司的第三季度里增长了一倍多，达到2.54亿美元。
A proxy for China
中国的指标
Investors have often looked to Alibaba to see how the broader Chinese economy is doing. Alibaba has repeatedly argued that it should outperform the economy because online buyers have grown more quickly than total consumption. As that customer growth has slowed, Alibaba has worked to make more money from users, especially those using mobile phones.
投资者经常想通过阿里巴巴来看中国更广泛的经济情况。阿里巴巴一再表示，它的表现应该比中国的经济更好，因为网上购物者的增长速度比国内总消费的增长速度要快。随着网上购物人数增长的放缓，阿里巴巴一直在努力从现有用户那里赚到更多的钱，尤其是那些使用手机的用户。