The Alibaba Group, China’s online commerce giant, confirmed early on Sunday that it planned to begin the process of becoming a public company in the United States.
中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团周日早些时候确认，它已计划启动在美国上市的程序。
In a post on its corporate blog, the company said it planned to list on an American stock market to become “a more global company.”
公司在其企业博客上发帖称，计划在美国上市是为了成为“更加国际化的公司”。
The short blog post formally highlights that the company is on its way toward setting up its long-awaited initial public offering, one that could set records as the biggest ever. Among China’s burgeoning contingent of Internet titans, Alibaba is unique — part eBay, part Google, part PayPal.
这条简短的博客声明正式表明，阿里巴巴迈上了人们期待已久的首次公开募股的征程，此次募股可能会创下纪录，成为世界上迄今最大一笔。阿里巴巴与中国一大批正在崛起的互联网大公司相比，十分独特，其服务一部分像eBay、一部分像Google，还有一部分像PayPal。
Its I.P.O. could eventually raise more than the $16 billion that Facebook reaped in its public debut nearly two years ago. Analysts speculate that the company could fetch a valuation well north of $130 billion.
阿里巴巴的首次公开募股最终的融资可能会超过Facebook不到两年前首次公开募股时得到的160亿美元（约合980亿元人民币）。分析人士预测，该公司可能得到超过1300亿美元的估值。
The offering is expected to make some of Alibaba’s executives extremely wealthy, including Jack Ma, the former English teacher who founded the company in 1999.
这次上市预计将会让阿里巴巴的一些高管暴富，其中包括马云，他曾是一位英语教师，于1999年创立了该公司。
Alibaba’s offering has drawn virtually all of Wall Street, as banks have regularly courted top officials like Mr. Ma and Joseph Tsai, a former American corporate lawyer who now serves as the company’s executive vice chairman.
阿里巴巴上市的消息几乎吸引了华尔街所有的注意力，各家银行都一直在向马云和蔡崇信(Joseph Tsai)等高管示好，蔡崇信曾在美国任企业律师，现在是阿里巴巴的执行副董事长。
According to a person briefed on the matter, the company plans to work with at least five major banks on its planned offering: Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley. Citigroup is also expected to play a role, the person added.
一位对此事知情的人说，阿里巴巴打算就其首次公开募股方案与至少5家银行合作：瑞信(Credit Suisse)、德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)、高盛银行(Goldman Sachs)、摩根大通银行(JPMorgan Chase )和摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)。此人还说，花旗集团(Citigroup)也有望会起一定的作用。
The blog post also shows that the company has snubbed its hometown exchange, the Hong Kong stock exchange. The Asian market’s operator has refused to bless Alibaba’s partnership structure, in which a group of insiders will maintain control of the board despite owning a minority of shares over all; the Hong Kong exchange’s rules prohibit dual classes of shares and other arrangements that give shareholders more than one vote per share.
公司博客的帖子也表明，阿里巴巴冷落了本土的香港交易所。这家亚洲市场的运营商拒绝认可阿里巴巴的企业合伙人结构，在这种结构下，一个持有少数股份的内部团队保持着对董事会的控制权；香港交易所的规定禁止双重类别股份、以及其他赋予持股人多于一股一票权力的结构。
Alibaba said that at some point, it might be open to a dual listing in China.
阿里巴巴称，未来可能会在中国双重上市。
“We wish to thank those in Hong Kong who have supported Alibaba Group,” the company said in its post. “We respect the viewpoints and policies of Hong Kong and will continue to pay close attention to and support the process of innovation and development of Hong Kong.”
阿里巴巴在帖子中说，“感谢香港各界人士对阿里巴巴的关心和支持。我们尊重香港现时的相关政策和出发点，并将会一如既往地关注、参与并支持香港的创新和发展。”