The market debut of the Alibaba Group, the Chinese Internet titan, hit the stock markets like a meteor last week, ending its first day of public trading on Friday worth a staggering $231 billion.
中国互联网巨头阿里巴巴集团的首次上市，就像是上周有一颗流星击中了股票市场，在其周五公开交易的第一天，阿里巴巴以令人难以置信的2310亿美元（相当于1.4万亿元人民币）的市值收盘。
Six years ago, however, the e-commerce company was worth only a small fraction of that — and commanded little attention outside its home market. Still, Kenneth Y. Hao, a managing director of the American investment firm Silver Lake, was determined to build a relationship with what he saw as a budding Internet behemoth.
然而，这家电子商务公司六年前的估值只是其如今市值的很小部分，而且其在国内市场之外极少受到关注。不过，美国投资公司银湖基金的管理董事郝也康(Kenneth Y. Hao)却决意要与他看到的这个崭露头角的互联网巨头建立关系。
That persistence has paid off. Thanks to $500 million in investments made in 2011 and 2012, Silver Lake now sits on a stake worth more than $5.1 billion, after having reaped $278.8 million by selling a fraction of its holdings.
他的坚持得到了回报。由于在2011年和2012年间的5亿美元投资，银湖现在坐享价值超过51亿美元的股份，这还是在销售了其持有股份的小部分、收益2.788亿美元之后。
Though the biggest winners from Alibaba’s blockbuster initial public offering are largely the founders of the e-commerce giant, such as its co-founder, Jack Ma, a handful of other Western investors have done extraordinarily well, too. Few stand out as prominently as Silver Lake, which turned a nascent relationship with the Chinese company into a blockbuster investment win.
虽然阿里巴巴一鸣惊人的首次公开募股的最大赢家主要是这个电子商务巨头的创始人，比如其联合创始人马云，少数西方投资者也获得了非凡的成功。然而很少有像银湖这样显著的，它把与这家中国公司的新生关系变成一个非常漂亮的投资获胜。
“We were pretty honored to be brought in as one of the first large-scale U.S. institutional investors,” Mr. Hao said in an interview.
郝也康在接受采访时说，“能被招为首批大型美国机构投资者之一，我们非常荣幸。”
Other Western investors have also recognized the potential of Alibaba for some time. The private equity firm General Atlantic, for example, first bought $75 million worth of shares in the Chinese company in 2009 after having first met its management the previous year, according to a person briefed on the matter.
其他西方投资者认识到阿里巴巴的潜力也有一段时间了。比如，美国私募企业泛大西洋资本集团(General Atlantic)，，据了解情况的人说，在2008年第一次与阿里巴巴管理层见面后，泛大西洋资本在2009年首次购买了这家中国公司价值7500万美元的股份。
The investment valued Alibaba at $5 a share. At Friday’s closing price, the stake is now worth about $1.2 billion — and General Atlantic sold no shares in the offering.
那笔投资是基于阿里巴巴每股5美元的估价。按上周五的收盘价计算，该股份目前价值约为12亿美元，泛大西洋资本在公开募股的当天没有出售任何股份。
Representatives for both Alibaba and General Atlantic declined to comment.
阿里巴巴和泛大西洋资本集团都婉言拒绝置评。
For Mr. Hao, a Brooklyn-born son of Taiwanese immigrants and a leading collector of Bruce Lee memorabilia, forming a connection with Alibaba came down to a shared cultural heritage with the company’s top deal maker, Joseph C. Tsai.
郝也康是台湾移民的儿子，在布鲁克林出生，大量收藏李小龙纪念品，对他来说，与阿里巴巴建立的关系归根结底是与该公司的交易高手蔡崇信(Joseph C. Tsai)的共同文化传承。
Both men traced their roots back to Taiwan, attended Ivy League colleges and had experience in the private equity industry. By the time they began to form a bond, Mr. Hao quickly discovered that his counterpart was already forming a global web of important contacts.
他们两人的根都追溯到台湾，他们都上过常青藤大学，都有私募股权行业的经验。当他们开始形成牢固关系时，郝也康很快发现，对方已经在建立一个重要关系人的全球网络。
But Silver Lake did not invest right away, and instead Mr. Hao and Mr. Tsai kept up a friendly dialogue. In the meantime, the investment firm began conducting due diligence on Alibaba, whose online market places were already used regularly by the firm’s employees in China.
不过，银湖并没有马上投资，郝也康和蔡崇信先是保持了一段时间的友好对话。在此期间，这家投资公司开始对阿里巴巴进行尽职调查，公司在华员工当时已经经常在使用阿里巴巴的在线市场。
Around early 2011, Mr. Hao ran into a member of the Alibaba management team while on vacation in Taiwan. Within a matter of days, the Chinese company asked him if Silver Lake would help lead a huge round of investments — ultimately totaling roughly $10 billion — into the e-commerce operator. The first part of the round valued Alibaba at over $30 billion.
大约在2011年年初，郝也康在台湾度假时，偶然遇到阿里巴巴管理团队中的一个成员。短短几天之内，该中国公司问郝也康，银湖是否愿意帮助引领对这家电子商务运营商的一轮巨额投资，这轮投资最终达到大约100亿美元。在这轮投资的第一个阶段，对阿里巴巴的估值超过300亿美元。
Such an enormous cash infusion would have two purposes: It would help cash out early employees who wanted to sell their holdings, and it would help cut down the size of the stake held by Yahoo, which owned about 40 percent thanks to a 2005 investment of $1 billion.
如此巨大的资金注入有两个目的：它可以帮助让希望兑现的早期员工出售自己持有的股票，而且它将有助于减少雅虎持有的股权，由于曾在2005年对阿里巴巴投资10亿美元，雅虎当时拥有约40％的股权。
But the request prompted some soul-searching at Silver Lake, which would lead an eventual two rounds of investments in 2011 and 2012 alongside the Russian investment firm DST Global. Mr. Hao recalled sometimes fierce debate within the firm’s investment committee, when a colleague asked how the firm would realize a profit.
但这个请求在银湖引起相当多的思考，最终导致2011年和2012年的两次投资，一起参加投资的还有俄罗斯投资公司DST全球(DST Global)。郝也康回忆起公司投资委员会展开的有时十分激烈的争论，有同事问公司将如何实现盈利。
“One of the big points in our discussions was that our exit strategy was an I.P.O. with a valuation of $100 billion or more,” he said. “Even I had to pause and think about that.”
“我们讨论的一大要点是，我们的退出策略是能进行估值在1千亿美元以上的首次公开募股，”他说。“就连我也不得不停下来想一想。”
Ultimately, the firm concluded that the round was something that it could not pass up. Such was Silver Lake’s enthusiasm that it even invested more than the roughly $300 million it originally planned, going up to nearly $500 million.
最终，公司的结论是不能错过这轮投资机会。银湖对投资阿里巴巴如此积极，它甚至超过了原计划的约3亿美元，投了高达近5亿美元的资金。