The Asia Society announced on Tuesday that Kevin Rudd, the former prime minister of Australia, would lead a new research institute it has created that specializes in Asian issues and policy making, a reflection of Asia’s increasing global influence.
亚洲协会(Asia Society)周二宣布，澳大利亚前总理陆克文(Kevin Rudd)将领导协会创立一家专注于亚洲事务和决策的新研究机构。这反映了亚洲日益增长的国际影响力。
Mr. Rudd, 57, a longtime statesman, Asia scholar and a fluent Mandarin speaker, will become the first president of the Asia Society Policy Institute in January. His appointment was announced six months after the Asia Society formally launched the institute, which it has described as “a new kind of think tank on the rise of Asia.”
57岁的陆克文曾长期从政，是一名亚洲问题学者，普通话流利。他将于明年1月成为亚洲协会政策研究所(Asia Society Policy Institute)的首任负责人。他的任命是在亚洲协会正式成立该机构六个月后宣布的。亚洲协会称其为“旨在关注亚洲崛起的新型智库”。
Based in New York and Washington, the institute has sought to establish itself as a hub for research and analysis on Asia, which accounts for 60 percent of the world’s population and is projected to account for more than half of global economic output by 2050.
研究所设在纽约和华盛顿，希望能成为亚洲研究和分析的一个中心。亚洲拥有世界60%的人口，其经济产出预计将于2050年超过世界总量的一半。
Josette Sheeran, president of the Asia Society, said in an announcement that Mr. Rudd is “the ideal choice to lead the Asia Society Policy Institute at this historic moment.”
亚洲协会会长施静书(Josette Sheeran)在通告中称，陆克文是“在此历史时刻领导亚洲协会政策研究所的理想人选”。
Mr. Rudd is a senior fellow at Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard, where he has been working on a research project on United States-China relations over the next decade.
陆克文目前是哈佛大学贝尔福科学与国际事务研究中心(Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard)的高级研究员。在该中心，他一直进行的是一个有关中美未来十年关系的项目。
Mr. Rudd was Australia’s 26th prime minister, serving from 2007 to 2010, then foreign minister from 2010 to 2012, and prime minister again in 2013.
陆克文曾是澳大利亚第26任总理，任期从2007年到2010年。2010到2012年期间，他出任了澳大利亚外长，后来又在2013年再度短暂出任总理。
He has been internationally recognized as one of the founders of the G20 group of nations and as an early advocate of aggressive efforts to combat climate change.
他是国际公认的20国集团(G20)发起人之一，还一早期倡导大力抗击气候变化。