SHANGHAI — A wealthy Chinese businessman and philanthropist known for his zany public stunts said on Tuesday that he was leading a group of investors seeking to acquire a large or controlling stake in The New York Times Company.
上海——周二，一个以滑稽炒作闻名的中国富商、慈善家表示，他将带领一个投资者团队，寻求收购纽约时报公司(The New York Times Company)的大量股份或控股权。
Shares in the Times Company jumped more than 4 percent to a five-year high on Monday, shortly after the businessman, Chen Guangbiao, hinted at his plans in a speech in southern China.
周一，中国商人陈光标在中国南部发表讲话暗示自己的计划后不久，纽约时报公司的股票上涨超过4%，达到五年来的最高水平。
Arthur Sulzberger Jr., publisher of The New York Times, said in 2013 that the family that controls the paper is not interested in selling it.
《纽约时报》出版人小阿瑟·苏兹伯格(Arthur Sulzberger Jr.)曾在2013年表示，《纽约时报》的控股家族无意出售该公司。
In a phone interview on Tuesday, Mr. Chen said he had been thinking about “working with” The New York Times for years. Recently, he said, he had persuaded two businessmen, including a Hong Kong tycoon, to help him raise about $1 billion to snap up a large portion of the company, now valued at about $2.4 billion based on its stock price.
陈光标周二接受电话采访时表示，他多年来一直在考虑与《纽约时报》“合作”。他还表示，最近已说服包括一名香港商业大亨在内的两名商人帮他筹集约10亿美元（约合60亿元人民币）资金，以便收购该公司的大量股份。按当前股价计算，纽约时报公司市值约为24亿美元。
Because of the way its shares are structured, the company is controlled largely by a special class of stock, Class B shares, held by descendants of Adolph S. Ochs, who acquired the paper in 1896. The Class A stock, which is publicly traded, rose about 86 percent in 2013.
受股权结构影响，该公司的控制权主要集中于一个特别的股票类别——B股，B股的持有者是阿道夫·S·奥兹(Adolph S.Ochs)的后裔，奥兹在1896年收购了该公司。2013年，该公司公开交易的A类股上涨了86%左右。
Mr. Chen, who made a fortune in the recycling business, said he had set up a meeting with Times representatives next week in New York and planned to make his pitch because The New York Times was the world’s most influential publication. Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for The Times, said, “We have no information about any such meeting.”
通过回收行业发财致富的陈光标表示，他已经安排下周在纽约与纽约时报公司的代表举行会议，并计划进行游说，因为《纽约时报》是世界上最具影响力的出版物。纽约时报公司的女发言人艾琳·墨菲(Eileen Murphy)表示，“我们没有听说此类会议。”
In the telephone interview, Mr. Chen said, “If I can get this deal with The New York Times, I will be able to bring more positive images and influence to contribute to world peace and make the world a better place.” He added, “If the deal breaks off, I will keep searching for another credible and influential media company in the U.S. to achieve my goal.”
陈光标在电话采访中说，“如果能和纽约时报公司达成交易，我会让报纸的形象更正面，会让它产生更大的影响力，为全球和平做贡献，让世界变得更美好，”他还说，“如果达不成交易，我会继续在美国搜索其他信誉卓著、富有影响力的传媒公司来实现目标。”
Mr. Chen, who is estimated to be worth about $800 million, according to the Hurun Rich List, has been praised and ridiculed for his publicity stunts, which have included handing out cash and “canned fresh air” to raise awareness about charitable giving and the environment.
陈光标的炒作手法向来是有人称赞有人嘲讽，这些手法包括派发现金和“鲜氧罐头”，以提高人们对慈善捐助和环境保护的意识。据胡润百富榜估计，陈光标的身家约为8亿美元（约合48亿元人民币）。
Although The Times has a news bureau in China, the paper’s English- and Chinese-language websites have both been blocked here since late 2012, after The Times published an article about the hidden wealth of the relatives of Wen Jiabao, then Chinese prime minister.
虽然《纽约时报》在中国设立了新闻分社，但自2012年末以来，该报英文及中文网站一直在中国遭到屏蔽，原因是《纽约时报》刊登了一篇报道，讲述了时任中国总理温家宝家族的隐秘财富。
Mr. Chen said he would work to repair The Times’s image in China, and to improve the paper’s understanding of the country.
陈光标说，他会设法修补《纽约时报》在中国的形象，增进该报对中国的了解。
“My plan for The New York Times if I get the deal will be putting the paper on every newsstand across the country and making The Times accessible to every Chinese household. China is such a big market and is too big to miss,” he said.
他说，“如果能达成协议，我计划把《纽约时报》放入全国的每一个报亭，让每个中国家庭都能买到这份报纸。中国市场如此巨大，无论如何也不能错失这么大的市场。”
The New York Times’s strong recent stock performance follows several quarters of positive earnings results and gains in circulation, though it still faces a struggling advertising market. The company’s stock closed on Tuesday at $15.87, down 22 cents.
纽约时报公司最近在股市表现强劲，这是因为过去的几个季度里，该公司一直在盈利，旗下报纸的发行量也有所增加，尽管它依然面临在广告市场挣扎求存的窘境。周二，纽约时报公司的股市收盘价为15.87美元，下跌了22美分。
In 2014, it plans several initiatives, including a website redesign, new digital products and the use of native advertising, which is paid content from marketers that is designed to look more like the online articles it appears alongside than traditional advertising.
2014年，公司计划提出几项举措，包括重新设计网站，推出新的数字产品以及使用原生广告，后者是由市场营销人员提供的付费内容，从设计上看，它比传统广告更像广告旁边的网站文章。