SINGAPORE— A wildly successful first film often comes with a heavy burden. Can the next one possibly be as good?
新加坡——如果第一部电影获得了极大成功，沉重的压力往往也会随之而来。下一部也能这么好吗？
Anthony Chen, a young Singaporean filmmaker, is facing this pressure and more. Last year, Mr. Chen, 30, became the first Singaporean to win a major award at the Cannes Film Festival. “Ilo Ilo,” his small-budget movie about a Singaporean family and their new Filipino maid, won the Camera d’Or for best first feature film. The tiny island nation celebrated; the president of Singapore graced the film’s local premiere.
对于年轻的新加坡导演陈哲艺(Anthony Chen)而言，这个压力正变得越来越大。去年，30岁的陈哲艺成了首位在戛纳电影节(Cannes Film Festival)上荣获大奖的新加坡人。他的小成本电影《爸妈不在家》(Ilo Ilo)获得了金摄影机最佳影片奖。这部电影讲述了一个新加坡家庭和他们的新菲律宾女佣之间的故事。这个小小的岛国举国欢庆，新加坡总统还出席了电影在当地的首映式。
Made for $500,000 and partly funded by the Singapore Film Commission, “Ilo Ilo” went on to win four Golden Horse Awards in Taiwan, including Best Picture, the biggest honor in the Chinese film world, beating Wong Kar-wai’s “The Grandmaster.” Variety named Mr. Chen one of 10 directors to watch.
《爸妈不在家》的制作成本为50万美元（约合312万元人民币），而且部分资金由新加坡电影委员会(Singapore Film Commission)提供。后来，它又夺得四项台湾金马奖，打败王家卫的《一代宗师》，获得了华语电影界的最高殊荣——最佳影片奖。《综艺》(Variety)还把他评为最值得注目的10位导演之一。
Mr. Chen’s success shines a spotlight on Singapore’s steadily growing film industry and a new wave of Singaporean filmmakers. Once the center of the Malay film world, the city-state is known more for its port , banks and electronics factories than for cinema, but Mr. Chen’s accolades are the latest sign that this is changing.
陈哲艺的成功引起了人们对新加坡稳步发展的电影行业以及新涌现的一批新加坡导演的关注。新加坡曾经是马来语电影界的中心，它的港口、银行和电子厂比电影更有名，但是陈哲艺获得的赞誉说明，情况正在变化。
To be sure, filmmakers in Singapore today face serious hurdles. With a population of just five million, the domestic audience is small and weaned on Western entertainment. And the government carefully regulates, in the name of social harmony, what can and can’t be shown.
当然，新加坡导演如今也面临着严重的障碍。新加坡只有500万人口，国内观众很少，而且从小就习惯西方的娱乐方式。政府也以社会和谐为名，对电影进行谨慎的管制，决定什么可以上映，什么不能。
The top money-earner in Singapore last year was Marvel’s “Iron Man 3” with $10.6 million in ticket sales. “Ah Boys to Men 2,” a sequel to a comedy on army recruits by Singapore’s most commercially successful filmmaker, Jack Neo, brought in $6.3 million. “Ilo Ilo” was third with $1 million.
新加坡去年挣钱最多的电影是漫威(Marvel)的《钢铁侠3》(Iron Man 3)，其票房收入为1006万美元。《新兵正传2》(Ah Boys to Men 2)共获票房收入630万美元，这是一部征兵喜剧片的续集，出自新加坡在商业上最成功的导演梁智强(Jack Neo)之手。《爸妈不在家》以100万美元的收入排名第三。
While Singapore’s censors have mellowed in the Internet age, some subjects are still taboo.
虽然新加坡审查者在互联网时代逐渐变得柔和，但有些主题仍属禁忌。
“There is less concern about strict censorship,” said Eric Khoo, one of the first of a wave of Singapore filmmakers to emerge since the 1990s. But anything that “defames a religion or creates friction between races” remains off limits. Nor is there a huge local appetite for arthouse movies.
“人们对严格审查的担心越来越少，”邱金海(Eric Khoo)说。他是20世纪90年代以来最早涌现的新加坡导演之一。但是任何“污蔑某个宗教或制造种族矛盾”的内容都是不被允许的。当地对文艺片的需求也不大。
Still, homegrown talent has managed to grow. Over a midnight cup of coffee at Changi Airport, at the tail-end of a trip home, Mr. Chen said that when he first told people about his idea for a film, they replied: “Who wants to watch a movie about a maid and a boy? Can’t you do something more punchy? More controversial?”
然而，新加坡的本土人才也得到了发展。午夜时分，即将返回家中的陈哲艺在樟宜机场(Changi Airport)喝咖啡时说，当他最初告诉人们他拍电影的想法时，他们的反应是：“谁想看一部关于女佣和男孩的电影？你不能拍点更刺激、更有争议的东西吗？”
Based in London now, he’s already at work on two projects in Britain. One is an adaptation of a British novel, a contemporary family drama that spans 40 years. The other is based on an original script he’s writing.
他目前常住伦敦，现已在英国展开两个项目。其中一个是根据一部英国小说改编的当代家庭片，时间跨度为40年。另一部则是他正在编写的原创剧本。
“Ilo Ilo,” set in 1997 during the Asian financial crisis, shows a different side of Singapore far from the skyscrapers of the financial district or the malls of Orchard Road, revolving instead around the daily drama of life in the public housing blocks where most Singaporeans live. It is one of the few films here to depict a maid as a main character and resonated beyond the country’s shores. Audiences in Mumbai, India, cried, according to Mr. Chen, and told him: “This is an Indian film.” In Busan, South Korea, he says, they assured him: “Your film has Korean emotions.”
《爸妈不在家》的故事发生在1997年，当时正值亚洲金融危机时期。这部电影展示了新加坡的另外一面，远离金融街摩天大楼或乌节路购物中心，故事讲述了发生在大多数新加坡人所居住的公共住房里的日常生活故事。这是新加坡少数以女佣为主角的电影之一，它还在海外引起了共鸣。陈哲艺说，印度孟买的观众哭着对他说：“这是一部印度片。”他说，在韩国釜山，人们肯定地告诉他：“你的电影具有韩国情愫。”
Mr. Chen said he had never felt restrictions on his creativity in Singapore.
陈哲艺说，新加坡从来没让他感到自己的创造力受到了束缚。
“I’m more interested in asking questions than giving answers,” he said. “The last thing I want is to come in a very bold, moralistic way and say this is right and this is wrong, and make big statements. I’m not sure I’m that kind of filmmaker.”
“我对提出问题比回答问题更感兴趣，”他说。“我最不愿意做的就是采用一种武断的说教方式，告诉人们这是对的，那是错的，然后讲些大道理。我觉得我当不了那种导演。”
What he does want to prove is that Singaporean cinema can become a cultural force, the way Korean soap operas have permeated television screens around world. “As a society matures, they need the softer things in life,” he said. “They need culture, the arts. It can’t just all be material, material, material.”
他想证明的是，新加坡电影能够成为一种文化力量，就像韩剧占领世界各国的电视屏幕一样。“随着社会日渐成熟，他们生活中需要一些比较软性的东西，”他说。“他们需要文化，艺术。不能全是物质，物质，物质。”
He returns frequently to Singapore and is active in lobbying the government to provide better support to his generation of filmmakers. “I’m in a very good place to voice certain things,” he said.
他经常回新加坡，而且积极游说政府为他这一代的电影制作人提供更好的支持。他说，“我现在的地位可以让我表达一些东西。”
Mr. Chen grew up the oldest of three boys in a middle-class Singapore family. His father was a sales manager at an industrial products company, his mother a bookkeeper. He was influenced by Taiwanese cinema, particularly the films of Edward Yang and Ang Lee.
陈哲艺在新加坡的一个中产阶级家庭长大，家里共有三个儿子，他是老大。他的父亲曾在一个工业产品公司担任销售经理，母亲是一个簿记员。他受到台湾电影的影响，特别是杨德昌(Edward Yang)和李安(Ang Lee)的电影。
He studied film at Ngee Ann Polytechnic in Singapore, before the government sent him on a scholarship to the National Film and Television School in London. The Singapore Film Commission also funded several of his short films, which were screened in Cannes and Berlin. When “Ilo Ilo” came along, it agreed to invest $250,000, half the film’s budget.
在获得政府奖学金前往伦敦国立电影电视学院(National Film and Television School)前，陈哲艺在新加坡义安理工学院(Ngee Ann Polytechnic)学习电影。新加坡电影委员会(The Singapore Film Commission)还为他的几部短片提供了资助，这些影片都在戛纳和柏林电影节进行展映。拍摄《爸妈不在家》时，该委员同意投资25万美元——占电影预算的一半。
“Ilo Ilo” has so far grossed about $3 million, Mr. Chen said, of which $2 million has come from outside Singapore. Distributors in more than 20 countries have bought the film. It continues to play in the United States and opened this month in Britain.
陈哲艺表示，到目前为止，《爸妈不在家》的票房收入达到了300万美元，其中200万美元来自其他国家。有20多个国家的发行商购买了这部影片。影片目前仍在美国上映，本月将在英国首映。
For those in the industry, Mr. Chen’s success shows Singapore cinema is finally catching on with audiences outside the republic.
对于电影从业人员来说，陈哲艺的成功说明新加坡电影终于受到外国观众的欢迎。
In the 1950s and 1960s, Singapore was a hub for regional filmmaking, and the actor P. Ramlee — the Elvis Presley of the Malay movie world — made many of his musical comedies here at the legendary Shaw Brothers studio.
20世纪五六十年代，新加坡是一个地区性的电影制作中心，演员比南利(P. Ramlee)——马来西亚电影界的猫王(Elvis Presley)——的很多音乐喜剧都是在赫赫有名的邵氏兄弟(Shaw Brothers)公司拍摄的。
From the 1970s to the 1990s, Singapore filmmaking went into hibernation. “There was a huge concentration on survival,” said Freddie Yeo, chief operating officer of Infinite Studios, one of the biggest production houses in Singapore. “Film became a bit of a luxury.”
从20世纪70年代到90年代，新加坡电影制作进入休眠期。“人们关注的是如何生存，”无限影片公司(Infinite Studios)首席运营官弗雷迪·姚(Freddie Yeo)说。“电影成了奢侈品。”无限公司是新加坡最大的制作公司之一。
In 1991, organizers of the Singapore International Film Festival introduced a competition for local short films. “There were 17 entries and all 17 became finalists,” said Mr. Khoo, who won with his short film “August,” a story of betrayal told from the viewpoint of a small dog. He went on to make several successful films, despite controversial content.
1991年，新加坡国际电影节(Singapore International Film Festival)的组织者推出了本土短片竞赛环节。邱金海说，“有17部参赛作品，这17部影片全都进入了决赛。”邱金海凭借《八月》(August)夺得桂冠，这部短片以一只小狗的视角讲述了一个关于背叛的故事。他还摄制了几部成功的影片，尽管影片内容存在争议。
Mr. Khoo and others successfully lobbied the government to set up the Singapore Film Commission in 1998, modeled after the Australian Film Commission and Film France, to finance and facilitate filmmaking.
邱金海和其他人成功地游说政府，于1998年成立了新加坡电影委员会，该委员会以澳大利亚电影委员会(Australian Film Commission)和法国国家电影委员会(Film France)为范本，为电影拍摄提供资助和便利。
Over the next decade, the work of young Singapore filmmakers — Kelvin Tong and Royston Tan, among others — began showing at international film festivals. Back home, a filmmaker named Nicholas Chee opened Sinema Old School, housed in a former school, where anyone who made a Singapore film was guaranteed a screening.
接下来的十年中，唐永健(Kelvin Tong)、陈子谦(Royston Tan)等新加坡年轻电影人的作品开始在国际电影节上展映。在新加坡国内，电影人朱韦仲(Nicholas Chee)在一所旧学校开设了新戏院(Sinema Old School)，任何新加坡电影都可以在这里放映。
There are now about 10 Singapore films made each year.
目前，新加坡每年大约拍摄10部电影。
“Locally, there is renewed interest and motivation to take up filmmaking not just as a craft but as a commercial enterprise,” said Angeline Poh, the assistant chief executive of the Media Development Authority of Singapore, in an email.
新加坡媒体发展管理局(Media Development Authority of Singapore)助理执行长傅彩莉(Angeline Poh)通过邮件表示， “在新加坡，人们重新产生了拍摄电影的兴趣和意愿，不仅是作为一种技艺，还把它当作商业活动。”
Mr. Chen, and others, including Boo JunFeng and Wong Chen-Hsi, are the latest to come out of that fledgling ecosystem.
陈哲艺和巫俊峰(Boo JunFeng)、王晨曦(Wong Chen-Hsi)等人，就是从这个新兴生态中脱颖而出的最新代表。
“Someone like Anthony would represent our best chance of a commercial success,” said Mr. Yeo of Infinite Studios. “I think Anthony needs to go to the U.K., he needs to spend time in L.A., to really pounce on that opportunity.”
“陈哲艺这样的人，应该是我们获得商业成功的最好机会，”姚说。“我觉得陈哲艺需要去英国，也需要去洛杉矶待一段时间，去真正抓住机会。”
After all, soon there will be a new winner of the Camera d’Or.
毕竟，很快就会有其他人夺得金摄影机。