There are economic tensions in the United States, insufficient to explain the election of a petulant egomaniac to the highest office in the land, and there’s an all-out culture war that does explain it.
美国的经济局势的确颇为紧张，但这并不足以解释一个任性的自大狂为什么会当选为这个国家的最高领导人。如果从一场全面文化战争的角度看，他的当选就说得通了。
Donald Trump will become president next week because a sufficient number of Americans have had it with the confining, tiptoeing, politically correct form of speech and interaction favored by liberal elites on the coasts who believe they hold a monopoly on wisdom and the only key to progress.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)将于下周成为美国总统，因为有足够多的美国人受够了那种偏狭的、拐弯抹角的、政治正确的演讲和互动方式。偏爱这一方式的东西海岸自由派精英自认为垄断了智慧与开启进步之门的唯一一把钥匙。
It’s the culture, stupid.
是文化，笨蛋。
The issues that afflict the economy — rising inequality, stagnant middle-class incomes, marginalization — are not enough to explain Americans’ decision to leap off a cliff and entrust their fate to a collection of billionaires and ex-generals under the diktat of a thin-skinned showman of conspicuous “cruelty and ignorance,” in the words of Garrison Keillor.
种种拖累经济发展的问题——日益严重的不平等、中产阶级停滞不前的收入、边缘化——并不足以解释美国人为什么决定纵身跳下悬崖，把自己的命运交托给一群亿万富翁和退役将军，用专制手段领导着这些人的则是一个脸皮薄又爱出风头的人物，用盖瑞森·凯勒(Garrison Keillor)的话来说，他显然“残忍且无知”。
Meryl Streep, in a speech at the Golden Globes awards ceremony, waded into this culture war. She was Hollywood lambasting the people’s choice. Without naming the president-elect, she singled out his cruelty, as expressed in Trump’s mocking imitation during the campaign of a reporter with a disability. They did that in the Middle Ages, you know.
在金球奖颁奖典礼上发表获奖感言时，梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)卷入了这场文化战争。她代表好莱坞抨击了人民的选择。虽然没对候任总统指名道姓，但她特别指出了他的残忍——特朗普在竞选期间对一名残疾记者的嘲弄和模仿清楚地展示了这一点。要知道，中世纪的人才会这么干。
Trump, goaded, is like a child whose candy has been taken away. He throws a fit. His version of a scream is a tweet (or in this case several) calling Streep “one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood,” and a “Hillary flunky,” and claiming — grotesquely — that he never mocked the reporter, my colleague Serge Kovaleski. Trump finished up with his usual gibe at the “very dishonest media.”
特朗普受了刺激，仿佛一个被人抢走了糖果的孩子。他大发雷霆。他以一则推文（在这件事情上或许是若干则）发出了自己的怒吼，把斯特里普称为“好莱坞最被高估的女演员之一”和“希拉里的马屁精”，并荒诞地宣称，他从未嘲弄过那名记者，也就是我的同事瑟奇·考瓦里斯基(Serge Kovaleski)。特朗普最后还奉上他常用的奚落之辞——“非常不诚实的媒体”。
Trump’s psyche is no great riddle. He’s a study in neediness. Adulation is what he craves; admonishment he cannot abide. Trafficking in untruths and conspiracies, he calls the press that he secretly venerates dishonest for pointing this out. That’s called transference. Soon he will have at his disposal far more potent weapons than Twitter to assuage his irascibility and channel his cruelty. It is doubtful that he will resist them over time. There is rational cause for serious alarm. If the world was anchored by America, it is about to be unmoored.
特朗普的心理状态并不是多么难猜的谜题。他是需索无度的典型例子。他渴望阿谀奉承；他无法忍受规劝。他一边兜售谎言和阴谋，一边因为自己暗地里尊敬的媒体指出了这一点而斥责它不诚实。这在心理学上叫做移情。很快，他就可以支配比Twitter有力得多的武器，用来发泄他的怒火，纾解他的残忍。经过一段时间后，他是否能够抗拒这些武器的诱惑，这一点颇为值得怀疑。我们有理由认真警惕。如果说美国是这个世界的支柱，那么它即将出现动摇。
Streep did an important thing in pointing to how Trump’s bullying allows open season for everyone’s inner bigot. A time of violence is upon us. She did another important thing in saying that, “We need the principled press to hold power to account.” If Trump sees himself as America’s “voice,” every countervoice is needed, loud and clear and persistent.
斯特里普做了一件意义非凡的事，她指出，特朗普的霸凌之举会引得所有人竞相展现内心的狭隘。我们将迎来一个暴力时代。她还做了另一件意义非凡的事，指出，“我们需要有原则的媒体来问责权力”。如果特朗普把自己视为美国的“声音”，那么必须存在与此相反的声音，响亮、清晰、持续不断。
But will Streep’s words have any impact with Trump’s tens of millions of supporters, or will they redouble these people’s anger toward elites in Hollywood and other centers of dogmatic liberalism?
但斯特里普的话是会给特朗普的大量支持者带来冲击，还是会引得他们对身处好莱坞等教条式自由主义核心地带的精英愈发感到愤怒？
Meghan McCain, a conservative commentator and daughter of Senator John McCain, tweeted that, “This Meryl Streep speech is why Trump won. And if people in Hollywood don’t start recognizing why and how — you will get him re-elected.” She has a point. Trump lost the popular vote in November by 2.8 million. But outside California and New York, he won by 3 million. That’s America’s story in a nutshell.
约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)参议员的女儿、保守派评论人士梅根麦·凯恩发推文称，“梅丽尔·斯特里普的这番演讲就是特朗普胜选的原因所在。如果好莱坞的人不能开始认识到个中原因和来龙去脉——你们会让他再度当选。”她的话不无道理。去年11月，特朗普以280万票的差距输掉了普选。但在加州和纽约之外，他领先了300万票。简而言之，这是一个美国故事。
Getting America out of its mess begins with the acknowledgment that New York and California do not have a stranglehold on truth, any more than Kansas and Missouri do. Out there in God-fearing gun country there are plenty of smart, upstanding Americans who, as Mark Lilla of Columbia University put it, paraphrasing Bernie Sanders, are “sick and tired of hearing about liberals’ damn bathrooms.”
要让美国摆脱这个烂摊子，先要承认纽约和加州并没有比堪萨斯州和密苏里州掌握更多真理。在这个国家那些敬畏上帝、拥护持枪的地方，有大量聪明、诚实的美国人，他们就像哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的马克·里拉(Mark Lilla)转述伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)的话时所说的那样，“受够了自由派再说什么该死的卫生间”。
Lilla, in the same important piece, identified the “moral panic about racial, gender and sexual identity that has distorted liberalism’s message” as a principal cause of the Democrats’ defeat; and he also called out a “generation of liberals and progressives narcissistically unaware of conditions outside their self-defined groups” — specifically the working-class whites who voted overwhelmingly for Trump.
里拉在同一篇极为重要的文章中指出，“对于种族认同、性别认同和性取向的道德恐慌扭曲了自由主义的信息”，而这正是民主党落败的重要原因；他还提到，“一代自由主义者和进步人士颇为自恋，对其自行划定的小圈子之外的状况无知无觉，尤其不了解把绝大多数选票都投给特朗普的白人工人阶层的状况。
For this, of course, Lilla was widely vilified by the thought police of identity politics. His colleague at Columbia University, Katherine Franke, suggested he was doing the “nefarious background work of making white supremacy respectable. Again.” That’s an outrageous allegation but not one untypical of our times.
当然了，里拉由此受到推崇身份政治的思想警察的广泛诋毁。他在哥伦比亚大学的同事凯瑟琳·弗兰克(Katherine Franke)称，他做的是“邪恶的的基础性工作，旨在让白人至上主义受到推崇。不是第一次了”。这是一种荒诞的指责，但在我们的时代非常典型。
It’s not only the alt-right that wants to silence dissenting views. The alt-left is in full mobilization. Trump is a travesty. But just denouncing him without understanding him leads nowhere. As Michael Wolff pointed out in Newsweek, where liberals see an attack on free speech, Trump supporters see the media stifling “real speech.”
想要压制不同意见的不光是另类右翼人士。另类左翼人士也纷纷出动。特朗普很荒谬。但是，只去谴责他而不去理解他，这样是没有出路的。正如迈克尔·沃尔夫(Michael Wolf)在《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)上所说，一方面，自由主义者看到言论自由遭受攻击，另一方面，特朗普的支持者看到的却是媒体正在压制“真正的言论”。
The weeks since Nov. 8 have demonstrated Trump’s contempt for his supporters. He wants to “drain the swamp” through nepotism, empower the marginalized through the coddling of the superrich, and toss the ethics of hard-working heartland Americans out the window of that gold-daubed apartment atop his tower. It’s been a stomach-turning display.
自去年11月8日以来的这几个星期里，特朗普显得对他的支持者们不屑一顾。他想通过裙带关系“抽干沼泽”，想通过讨好超级富翁来增进边缘人的权力，想把中心地带美国人恪守的辛勤工作准则扔出特朗普大厦顶层那套镀金公寓的窗外。真是让人反胃的表演。
With time, more Americans will side with Streep. They will see that a mean, shallow actor has duped them. But to finish with Trump, liberals will also have to reckon with how they lost sight of their country.
随着时间推移，会有更多美国人站到斯特里普一边。他们会发现一个卑鄙、浅薄的演员欺骗了他们。但要终结特朗普，自由主义者必须细细思索自己如何忽略了这个国家。