MOSCOW — He has ridden shirtless on a horse in Siberia, piloted a hand glider with migratory birds, swum with dolphins, tossed judo opponents, and dived into the depths of Lake Baikal and the Black Sea.
莫斯科——他在西伯利亚赤膊骑马，驾驶悬挂式滑翔机和候鸟一起飞行，与海豚一起游泳，抛起柔道对手，潜入贝加尔湖和黑海的深处。
He is Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, who added to his public repertory of feats on Sunday by showing off his skills as a pianist.
他就是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，周日，他还炫耀自己演奏钢琴的技能，在他公开的才能种类中又添加了一项。
He was in Beijing for the “One Belt, One Road” initiative, a $1 trillion plan for infrastructure and economic development in some 60 countries. And while waiting at a state guesthouse of China’s president, Xi Jinping, Mr. Putin sat down at a grand piano and played two tunes: “Evening Song,” by Vasily Solovyov-Sedoi, and “Moscow Windows,” by Tikhon Khrennikov.
他因为“一带一路”的倡议来到北京，这个1万亿美元的项目计划带动60多个国家的基础设施建设和经济发展。在国宾馆等待的时候，普京坐到一架大钢琴旁，演奏了两首曲子：瓦西里·索洛维约夫-谢多伊(Vasily Solovyov-Sedoi)的《黄昏之歌》和吉洪·赫连尼科夫(Tikhon Khrennikov)的《莫斯科之窗》。
Both songs are from the late 1950s, when Mr. Putin, 64, was a child.
这两首歌皆创作于1950年代末，现年64岁的普京当时还是孩子。
The performance seemed casual, but it was clearly not spontaneous — a cameraman was on hand, and video of the impromptu recital quickly circulated on Russian state media.
表演显得很随性，但显然不是偶发的——摄影师就在旁边，这个即兴演奏的视频在俄罗斯的国家媒体上迅速流传。
The recital showed perhaps a softer side of Mr. Putin, an authoritarian leader who has been in power since 1999 and has often appeared eager to be seen as manly.
这样的独奏展示了普京柔和的一面，自1999年掌权以来，普京一直被视为一个专制领导人，显得经常热衷于表现男子气概。
“Evening Song,” usually performed with lyrics by Aleksandr Churkin, was written in 1957 and is considered an unofficial anthem of St. Petersburg, Mr. Putin’s hometown, formerly known as Leningrad.
《黄昏之歌》写于1957年，通常表演搭配的是亚历山大·丘尔金(Aleksandr Churkin)填写的歌词，它是普京家乡圣彼得堡的非官方市歌。圣彼得堡以前被称为列宁格勒。
Here are some of the lyrics:
部分歌词如下：
“The city over the free Neva, the city of our glorious labor, listen Leningrad, I am singing to you my heartfelt song.”
“自由的涅瓦河畔的城市，是我们光荣的劳动者之城，听吧列宁格勒，我在对你唱着由衷的歌。”
In the 1980s, fans of the St. Petersburg soccer team Zenit turned it into an unofficial anthem for the team.
在1980年代，圣彼得堡泽尼特足球队的球迷把它变成了一首非官方的市歌。
The other tune, “Moscow Windows,” usually performed with lyrics by the poet Mikhail Matusovsky, is a tune about friendship. Some lyrics read:
另一首《莫斯科之窗》通常配合诗人米哈伊尔·马图罗夫斯基(Mikhail Matusovsky)的歌词演唱。这是一首关于友谊的歌曲，其中一些歌词是：
“As in the past I am ready to stand under your window, and I always rush toward the rays of light coming out of it as to a date with my youth.”
“像过去一样，我准备站在你的窗下，我总是急于奔向那里透出的光亮，就像年轻时奔向恋人。”
Mr. Putin performed both tunes without a vocal accompaniment.
普京弹奏了这两首歌曲，没有人伴唱。
It was not the Russian leaders first time playing music in public: He performed “Blueberry Hill” at a 2010 charity event attended by celebrities like the actors Sharon Stone and Gérard Depardieu in St. Petersburg, and “Moscow Windows” at a 2014 event at the Moscow Engineering Physics Institute.
这并非普京第一次在公共场合弹奏音乐：2010年，他在圣彼得堡的一个慈善活动上弹过《蓝莓山》，演员莎朗·斯通(Sharon Stone)和杰拉尔·德帕迪约(Gérard Depardieu)等一些名人也出席了该活动。2014年，普京在莫斯科工程物理研究所的一个活动上也弹奏过《莫斯科之窗》。
Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, told journalists in Beijing that “while Mr. Putin was waiting for a bilateral meeting with Xi Jinping, the president studied some papers, prepared for the meeting and also played piano,” as quoted by Gazeta.ru, a Russian news website.
据俄罗斯新闻网站Gazeta.ru报道，普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S.Peskov)在北京对记者表示：“普京当时正在等待与习近平会晤，总统研究了一些资料，为会面做准备，还弹了一下钢琴。”
Mr. Putin’s piano playing seemed to strike a chord with Chinese social media users. Female users posted notes online saying he was handsome (Mr. Putin has long been popular among Chinese women as a symbol of manliness.) 
普京演奏钢琴的事在中国的社交媒体上引起了兴趣。女性用户在网上说他很帅气（普京长期以来都很受到中国女性的青睐，觉得他是男子气概的象征）。