WASHINGTON — For an international fugitive hiding out in Russia from American espionage charges, Edward J. Snowden gets around.
华盛顿——作为一名逃避间谍罪指控而离开美国、躲在俄罗斯的国际逃犯，爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)是个有办法的人。
May has been another month of virtual globe-hopping for Mr. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, with video appearances so far at Princeton and in a “distinguished speakers” series at Stanford and at conferences in Norway and Australia. Before the month is out, he is scheduled to speak by video to audiences in Italy, and also in Ecuador, where there will be a screening of “Citizenfour,” the Oscar-winning documentary about him.
5月，国家安全局(National Security Agency，简称NSA)前承包商雇员斯诺登在全球各地的虚拟旅程仍在继续：他通过视频出现在普林斯顿大学(Princeton)的校园里，出现在斯坦福大学的“杰出人士演讲”系列活动中；出现在挪威和澳大利亚的会议上。按照计划，月底之前，他还将通过视频对意大利和厄瓜多尔的观众演讲，以他为主角的奥斯卡获奖纪录片《第四公民》(Citizenfour)将在这两个国家上映。
But there have been far more consequential victories for Mr. Snowden’s cause two years after he flew from Hawaii to Hong Kong carrying laptops loaded with N.S.A. secrets.
但在携带存有NSA机密信息的笔记本电脑从夏威夷飞往香港两年后，斯诺登的事业成就远远不止于此。
Two weeks ago, a federal appeals court ruled that the first N.S.A. program he disclosed, which collects the phone call records of millions of Americans, is illegal. Last week, the House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly to transform the program by keeping the bulk phone records out of government hands, a change President Obama has endorsed and the Senate is now debating. And Apple and Google have angered the F.B.I. by stepping up encryption, including on smartphones, to scramble communications and protect customers from the kind of government surveillance Mr. Snowden exposed.
两周前，他最初揭露的NSA收集数百万美国人电话记录的项目，被一家联邦上诉法庭裁定为非法。上周，众议院(House of Representatives)以压倒性多数票通过了一项旨在改造这一项目、禁止政府大规模搜集民众通话记录的议案，奥巴马总统对此持支持态度，参议院目前正在讨论该议案。与此同时，让联邦调查局(FBI)非常恼火的是，谷歌(Google)和苹果(Apple)正在加快推行数据加密——包括智能手机数据加密——技术的步伐，对通信信号进行加扰，帮助用户避开斯诺登所揭露的这种政府监控。
The fallout has been deeply satisfying to Mr. Snowden, who at first feared that his revelations might be ignored, said Ben Wizner, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer who represents him. But the debate about Mr. Snowden is far from over.
斯诺登的法律顾问、美国公民自由联盟(American Civil Liberties Union)律师本·维茨纳(Ben Wizner)表示，斯诺登对这样的结果非常满意，他一开始还担心他揭露的事情会被忽略。但关于斯诺登的讨论远未结束。
“His life is very, very rich and full,” Mr. Wizner said, eager to refute predictions by Mr. Snowden’s critics in 2013 that he would end up in bitter obscurity in Russia. “What a remarkable public citizen he’s become. How fitting that he has been able to use technology to defeat exile and participate in the debate he started.”
斯诺登的批评者在2013年曾预测，在俄罗斯等待他的将是无人过问的苦涩生活，竭力驳斥此类言论的维茨纳说，“他现在过得非常丰富多彩，非常充实”。“他已经成为了一位如此杰出的公众公民。他能够利用技术克服被放逐的窘境，参与到由他发起的讨论之中，多完美啊。”
American intelligence officials tell a different story about the saga that began on May 20, 2013, the day Mr. Snowden flew to Hong Kong. Mr. Snowden’s decision to leak hundreds of thousands of highly classified N.S.A. documents to selected reporters still prompts fury from many in the Obama administration, who say his revelations taught terrorists and other adversaries how to dodge the agency’s eavesdropping. They note that his disclosures, some of which were printed in The New York Times, went far beyond the phone records collection, touching on many programs that target foreign countries and do not involve Americans’ privacy.
关于这个始于2013年5月20日（斯诺登飞往香港的日子）的传奇，美国情报官员的说法截然不同。斯诺登泄露数百份NSA高级机密文件的决定，令奥巴马政府里的许多人怒火中烧，他们说，斯诺登泄露的信息会让恐怖分子以及美国的其他对手受到启发，摸索出避免被NSA监听的方法。
“The only debate we’re really having in the U.S. is about the very first document that Snowden produced,” said Stewart A. Baker, a former N.S.A. general counsel and outspoken critic of the leaks, referring to the secret court order authorizing the phone records program. “The rest of the documents have been used as a kind of intelligence porn for the rest of the world — ‘Oooh, look at what N.S.A. is doing.’ ”
直言不讳地批评了泄密行为的NSA前首席法律顾问斯图尔特·A·贝克(Stewart A. Baker)称，“在美国，我们的讨论其实只限于斯诺登泄露的第一份文件。”他指的是授权启动电话记录监控项目的秘密法庭判令。“余下的文件对外界而言只是某种情报色情片——‘哎呦喂，看看NSA干什么呢。’”
In a new memoir, Michael J. Morell, former deputy director and acting director of the C.I.A., expresses the dark view of many intelligence veterans, even blaming Mr. Snowden’s leaks for empowering the Islamic State extremist group, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
曾担任中情局副局长和代理局长的迈克尔·J·莫雷尔(Michael J. Morell)在一本新出版的回忆录中表达了许多情报界资深人士的悲观看法，甚至谴责说，斯诺登的泄密之举让极端组织伊斯兰国(Islamic State，又称ISIS 或ISIL)变得更强大了。
“ISIS was one of the terrorist groups that learned from Snowden, and it is clear his actions played a role in the rise of ISIS,” Mr. Morell writes in “The Great War of Our Time,” offering no elaboration. “In short, Snowden has made the United States and our allies considerably less safe. I do not say this lightly: Americans may well die at the hands of terrorists because of Edward Snowden’s actions.”
“ISIS是以斯诺登为师的恐怖组织之一；显然，他的行为是促成ISIS崛起的因素，”莫雷尔在名为《我们这个时代的世界大战》(The Great War of Our Time)的回忆录中写道。“简而言之，斯诺登已经让美国以及我们的盟友处于远不如以前安全的境地。这话不是随便说说的：美国人可能会因为斯诺登的行为而死于恐怖分子之手。”
Given such assessments, prosecutors have shown no inclination to offer Mr. Snowden a plea bargain he would accept. The Russian government granted him a three-year residency last summer, and he has no obvious prospect of leaving any time soon. Even if Mr. Snowden acquired some kind of travel documents — the United States has revoked his passport and he is not a citizen of Russia, so he has no Russian passport — he would face a high risk of arrest in any other country and a return to the United States for trial.
鉴于此类评价，检察官并未露出要跟斯诺登达成认罪协议的意向，尽管后者声称愿意认罪服刑。俄罗斯政府去年夏天给予斯诺登为期三年的居住许可；目前没有明显的迹象表明他将很快离开。他的美国护照已经被注销了；由于不是俄罗斯公民，他也并不持有俄罗斯护照。即便取得某种旅行证件，他仍然面临着极高的风险，有可能在其他任何国家遭到逮捕，被送回美国受审。
Mr. Snowden’s main source of income, his lawyer said, is speaking fees, which have sometimes exceeded $10,000 for an appearance. His American girlfriend, Lindsay Mills, who represented him at the Academy Awards ceremony in February, has joined him in Moscow.
斯诺登的律师称，演讲费是斯诺登的主要收入来源，有时露一次面可以拿到超过1万美元。他的美国女友林赛·米尔斯(Lindsay Mills)已经在莫斯科跟他团聚了。米尔斯曾代表他出席奥斯卡颁奖典礼。
But Mr. Snowden’s standing, if complicated, is still a far cry from what it was after he first went public from Hong Kong in June 2013 as the source of the leaked N.S.A. archive. In Congress and on cable television at that time, there was much talk of treason, suggestions that Mr. Snowden must be an agent of Russia or China and even calls for killing him with a drone strike.
但斯诺登的身份，即便很复杂，也与他2013年6月在香港首次公开亮相时有了很大的差别，当时他只是泄露NSA档案的源头。那时在国会及有线电视上很多人都提到叛国罪，暗示斯诺登肯定是俄罗斯或中国的特工，甚至呼吁通过无人机袭击除掉他。
To date, there has been no evidence that Mr. Snowden took the N.S.A. data on behalf of any other country or shared it except with journalists. (Mr. Morell, the former C.I.A. official, says he believes that Mr. Snowden would have rebuffed any offers from Russia or China, “given his mind-set and his clear dislike for intelligence services of any stripe.”)
迄今为止，尚未有证据证明斯诺登为了其他国家而获取NSA数据，或者曾将数据分享给记者以外的人。（前中情局官员莫雷尔表示，他认为，“鉴于斯诺登的心态，以及他对所有情报机构的明显恶感，”他会拒绝俄罗斯或中国开出的一切条件。）
At Princeton this month, the director of the university’s program in law and public affairs, Kim Lane Scheppele, introduced Mr. Snowden to a crowd that filled a large auditorium and two overflow rooms. She acknowledged that it was unusual for a program on law to feature as speaker someone facing serious criminal charges.
本月在普林斯顿大学，法律及公共事务课程负责人金·莱恩·谢佩勒(Kim Lane Scheppele)向挤满了一个大礼堂及两个外厅的观众介绍了斯诺登。她承认，一个法律课程邀请面临严重刑事指控的人担任演讲者是十分罕见的。
“But the very size of this audience today,” she said, “indicates that Edward Snowden has done something very important, by disclosing information that alerted the public to what was being done in our name.”
“但今天到场观众的数量说明，”她说，“爱德华·斯诺登做了一些非常重要的事情，他所揭露的信息使公众意识到，都有哪些事在以我们的名义进行着。”
Then the huge, projected image of Mr. Snowden himself loomed over the stage. He laughed sheepishly, muttering about looking like Big Brother.
然后，斯诺登的巨大投影图像出现在舞台上。他羞怯地笑了笑，抱怨称自己看起来像是“老大哥”。
Last Friday, at Stanford, he fielded the inevitable question: Is he a hero or a traitor?
上周五在斯坦福大学(Standford)，他回答了一个不可避免的问题：他是英雄还是叛徒？
“It’s not about me,” he insisted. “It’s about us. I’m not a hero. I’m not a traitor. I’m an ordinary American like anyone else in the room.”
“这不是关于我的问题，”他坚称。“而是关于我们大家的。我不是英雄。不是叛徒。我跟房间里的每一个人一样，就是一名普通的美国人。”