DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — Today, I’ll talk about the Paris attacks, but before I do I want to share two news stories here, in case you missed them: The first calf to come from a cloned camel was born at a research center in Dubai and a local taxi start-up is taking on Uber in the Arab world.
阿拉伯联合酋长国迪拜——今天，我要谈论一下巴黎袭击事件，但在此之前，我想先分享两则新故事，之前你们有可能没看到：一个是世界上第一头克隆骆驼在迪拜的一家研究中心产下幼崽，另外一个是当地一家出租车领域的创业公司，正在阿拉伯世界里与Uber展开竞争。
You may think that these emirates start-ups — cloning camels and cabs — have nothing to do with Paris, but they do. Bear with me.
你可能觉得这些阿联酋的创业公司，不管是克隆骆驼的还是和出租车有关的，都跟巴黎没什么关系，但其实真的有。容我慢慢讲。
A newspaper here, The National, quoted Dr. Ali Ridha Al Hashimi, the administrative director of the Reproductive Biotechnology Center in Dubai, announcing “that Injaz, the world’s first cloned camel, gave birth to a healthy female calf weighing about 38 kilos on November 2. Injaz, whose name means ‘achievement’ in Arabic, was cloned in 2009 from the ovarian cells of a dead camel.” Previously, when the pregnancy was disclosed, the center’s scientific director, Dr. Nisar Wani, said, “This will prove cloned camels are fertile and can reproduce the same as naturally produced camels.”
当地的《国民报》(The National)援引迪拜的生物繁殖科技中心(Reproductive Biotechnology Center)的行政总监阿里·里达·哈希米(Ali Ridha Al Hashimi)博士的话宣布，“11月2日，世上第一头克隆骆驼因贾兹(Injaz)产下一只重约38公斤的健康雌性骆驼幼崽。Injaz在阿拉伯语中意为‘成就’，这头骆驼是在2009年通过一只死骆驼的卵巢细胞克隆出来的。”之前披露因贾兹受孕的消息时，该中心科学总监尼萨尔·瓦尼(Nisar Wani)博士曾表示，“这将证明克隆骆驼具有生育能力，可以像自然生产的骆驼一样繁衍后代。”
Also last week, a hot local Arab ride-sharing start-up, Careem.com, raised $60 million more in venture financing to take on Uber in the Arab world, using technology that allows for pre-booking of vehicles through its mobile app — ideal for Saudi Arabia, where women can’t drive and need chauffeurs to take them and their kids everywhere.
同样是在上周，当地一家热门的阿拉伯拼车服务创业公司Careem.com又拿到了6000万美元的融资，可以在阿拉伯世界里与Uber展开较量。用户可以通过它的移动应用预订车辆，这非常适用于沙特阿拉伯，那里的女性不能自己开车，需要有司机驾车带她们和孩子去各种地方。
So, about 1,000 miles south of the Islamic State start-up in Iraq and Syria — where jihadists are using technology to spawn disruption on a massive scale — another group of Muslims (and non-Muslims) in another Arab country are disrupting the world of camels and cabs.
作为在伊拉克和叙利亚出现的“创业机构”，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的圣战分子利用科技在那里制造了大规模混乱。而在它以南1000英里处，另一个阿拉伯国家的另一批穆斯林（和非穆斯林）创业者，却是在颠覆骆驼和出租车的世界。
The message? The context within which Arabs and Muslims live their lives really matters. And in too many places they’ve had only two choices — SISI or ISIS — the iron fist of generals, like Egypt’s President Abdel Fatah al-Sisi, who is trying to stifle all dissent, or the ISIS madness that says the only way forward is to take the Arab-Muslim world backward.
这说明什么？说明阿拉伯人和穆斯林究竟会过怎样的生活，很大程度上要看他们所处的环境。在太多的地方，他们只有两个选择——SISI或ISIS。要么接受力图压制所有异见的埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fatah al-Sisi)等将领的铁腕统治；要么追随伊斯兰国(ISIS)的疯狂，后者认为对阿拉伯/穆斯林世界来说，唯一前进的道路是倒退。
Fortunately, there is a third way: the autocracies, monarchies and a few frail democracies that have invested in their people and created islands of decency — Tunisia, Jordan, Lebanon, Kurdistan, Kuwait, Morocco and the U.A.E. — where more young Arabs and Muslims can realize their full potential and build their dignity by disrupting camels and cabs — not Paris and Beirut.
幸运的是，还有第三种方式存在，即寄希望于人民，建立起“正直孤岛”的那些威权国家、君权国家，以及一些脆弱的民主国家，包括突尼斯、约旦、黎巴嫩、库尔德斯坦、科威特、摩洛哥和阿联酋。在这些地方，有更多阿拉伯和穆斯林青年能充分发挥自身潜力，通过颠覆骆驼和出租车的世界来树立自己的尊严，而不是通过袭击巴黎和贝鲁特。
For me, the big strategic question in Iraq and Syria is: What would it take to uproot ISIS and create a Sunni island of decency in its place? For starters, that requires an honest assessment of how big the challenge is.
在我看来，在伊拉克和叙利亚，重要的战略问题是：如何才能根除伊斯兰国，并创造一个逊尼派的正直之地来取代它？首先，我们需要真实地评估这项挑战究竟有多大。
Sixty years ago Asian dictators told their people in effect, “I am going to take away your freedom — but give you the best education, export-led economics and infrastructure that money can buy — and in a half-century you’ll build a middle class that will gradually take your freedom back.” In the Arab world, 60 years ago dictators told their people, in effect, “I am going to take away your freedom and give you the Arab-Israeli conflict, a shiny object to distract you from my corruption and predation.”
60多年前，亚洲的独裁者们传达给国民的信息实际上是，“我要拿走你们的自由，但我会给你们金钱能买到的最好的教育、出口导向型的经济，以及基础设施，50年后这里会产生中产阶级，他们会逐渐拿回你们的自由。”而在阿拉伯世界，60年前独裁者们告诉人们的实际上是，“我会拿走你们的自由，然后带来阿以冲突，这个目标无比耀眼，会让你们忽略我的腐败和掠夺。”
That difference, 60 years later, has produced the Asian economic miracle and fueled the Arab civilizational meltdown/disorder in Yemen, Libya, Syria and Iraq.
60年后，这种差异在亚洲带来了经济奇迹，在也门、利比亚、叙利亚和伊拉克则加剧了阿拉伯文明的崩溃/混乱。
Given that, I believe U.S. foreign policy out here should progress as follows: Where there is disorder, help create order, because without order nothing good can happen. I will take Sisi over the Muslim Brotherhood. But where there is order, we need to push for it to become more decent and forward-looking. That is where Sisi is failing: His vision is just order for order’s sake, with no positive slope. Where there is decent order, like the U.A.E., Jordan or Kurdistan, encourage it to gradually become more open and constitutional. And where there is constitutional order, as in Tunisia, protect it like a rare flower.
有鉴于此，我认为美国在该地区的外交政策应该遵循如下原则：在混乱的地方协助建立秩序，因为没有秩序，就不可能有好事出现。在这种情况下我会选择塞西，而非穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)。在有秩序的地方，我们需要推动秩序变得更体面、更着眼于长远。这正是塞西做不到的地方：在他的设想里，只是为了制定秩序而制定秩序，没有渐进的改善。在秩序良好的地方，如阿联酋、约旦或库尔德斯坦，要鼓励秩序逐渐变得更开明、更符合宪法。而在有宪政秩序的地方，如突尼斯，则要像保护奇花异草一样保护秩序。
An Iraqi friend with family still in ISIS-controlled Mosul tells me that President Obama’s stepped-up bombing and special operations with the Kurds are hurting ISIS a lot. It was in part to disguise this that ISIS unleashed its death parade in Paris. But these ISIS guys are smart and still very dangerous. I’d support more bombing and special ops to further weaken and contain them.
我有一个伊拉克朋友，他的家人仍在被ISIS控制的摩苏尔。朋友告诉我，奥巴马总统加强轰炸力度，并联合库尔德人开展特别行动重创了ISIS。而ISIS在巴黎发动残忍袭击，在一定程度上正是为了掩饰这一点。因为ISIS的这些家伙很聪明，并且依然非常危险。我支持开展更多轰炸和特别行动，以进一步削弱和遏制他们。
But before we go beyond that, we need to face this fact: To sustainably defeat bad ISIS Sunnis you need good non-ISIS Sunnis to create an island of decency in their place. And right now, alas, finding and strengthening good non-ISIS Sunnis is the second priority of all the neighbors.
但要想超越这个程度，采取更多的行动，我们需要面对的事实是：为了持久性地击败加入了ISIS的、作恶多端的逊尼派，需要让没有加入ISIS的、善良的逊尼派在自己的地方建立一片正直之地。但目前，找到没有加入ISIS的、善良的逊尼派，并为他们赋予力量，只是所有邻国的第二要务。
Turkey cares more about defeating Kurds; Saudi Arabia and its Arab Gulf allies care more about defeating Iran and its proxies in Iraq, Yemen and Syria; Qatar cares more about promoting the Muslim Brotherhood in Syria and annoying Saudi Arabia; Iran cares more about protecting Shiites in Iraq and Syria than creating a space for decent Sunnis to thrive; and many of the non-ISIS Sunni activists in Syria and Iraq are still Islamists — and they’re not going away. How do you weave a decent carpet from these threads?
土耳其更关心打败库尔德人；沙特阿拉伯和它在阿拉伯湾的盟友，更关心打败伊朗，及其在伊拉克、也门和叙利亚的代理人；卡塔尔更关心在叙利亚推动穆斯林兄弟会、骚扰沙特阿拉伯；伊朗更关心保护伊拉克和叙利亚的什叶派，而非建立一个地方，好让正直的逊尼派繁荣发展；在叙利亚和伊拉克，很多没有加入ISIS的逊尼派激进分子，仍笃信伊斯兰主义，他们不会消失。如何在这纷繁复杂的局势中理出头绪？
I don’t know — and until I do I’d be cautious about going far beyond what we’re already doing. Paris may be totally different today. The Middle East is not.
我不知道。在知道答案之前，我对于超出目前的举措，会持谨慎态度。今天的巴黎可能完全不同了，但中东不是。