The New York Asian Film Festival, whose 13th edition begins on Friday, can kindly be described as eclectic. Other festivals may stick to a theme or reflect a particular curatorial vision. The Asian Film Festival is all over the place. (And it’s a very big place.).
第13届纽约亚洲电影节(The New York Asian Film Festival)周五（此处指6月27日）开幕，它可以被友好地描述为一个折中的电影节。其他电影节可能围绕一个主题或者反映某种策展视角，而亚洲电影节则包罗万象（亚洲的确很大）。
The roots of this diversity can be traced to the event’s origins as a labor of love for a committee of young film geeks, each chasing his own tastes and obsessions through the highly various productions of China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and other Asian countries. This spirit survives even as the original programmers in the Subway Cinema collective have joined forces with the Film Society of Lincoln Center to put on their annual festival, which now takes place at Lincoln Center, Asia Society and Japan Society.
该电影节的多样性可以追溯到它的起源：一个由年轻电影怪才们组成的委员会创立了该电影节，他们这样做完全是出于对电影的热爱。他们各自在亚洲非常多样化的国度里追求自己的品味和嗜好，比如中国、香港、日本、韩国、台湾及亚洲的其他国家。在地铁电影公司(Subway Cinema)最初的策划人与林肯中心电影协会(Film Society of Lincoln Center)联合举办这个一年一度的电影节之后，它依然保持着这种精神。该电影节现在在林肯中心、亚洲协会(Asia Society)和日本协会(Japan Society)举行。
Period martial arts movies and sleek modern policiers; family dramas next door to raunchy comedies; avant-garde sex and violence versus solemn considerations of social justice — the festival probably has something you’re looking for. This year it contains mini-programs dedicated to the Hong Kong producer Run Run Shaw and the Korean actor Lee Jung-jae, and tributes to performers like the young Japanese star Fumi Nikaido.
古装武打片、时髦的现代警匪片、家庭情节剧、猥亵的喜剧、前卫的性与暴力、对社会正义的严肃思考——该电影节一定有你想看的。今年的电影节包括献给香港电影人邵逸夫和韩国演员李政宰的迷你节目，同时还向日本年轻明星二阶堂富美等演员致敬。
Navigating this bounty can be daunting, especially if you’re not an aficionado. Here are a few films worth seeking out among the 60 features.
这么多电影可能会让你觉得眼花，如果你不是电影迷的话更会有这种感觉。下面是我们从这60部影片中挑选出来的几部值得观看的影片。
‘THE ETERNAL ZERO’ (Japan, 2013) An elaborate effort to accommodate the Japanese past to the Japanese present — and one of the biggest domestic box office hits in the country’s history — Takashi Yamazaki’s World War II melodrama is a greatest-generation tale that celebrates craftsmanship, moderation and mindful sacrifice (and criticizes a modern society unused to making sacrifices of any kind). Its ideas can be muddled, and it’s been accused of distorting the facts about kamikaze pilots in a way that excuses Japan’s wartime extremes. But the main reaction of American viewers is likely to be, why can’t we make movies like this anymore — sweeping, stirring dramas about real people caught up in extraordinary events?
《永恒的零》（The Eternal Zero，日本，2013年）：山崎贵这部关于“二战”的故事片是该国历史上票房收入最高的影片之一。它精心地把日本的过去和现在结合在一起，讲述了最伟大的一代的故事，赞美技艺、节制以及深思熟虑后的牺牲（批评现代人不再习惯于做任何牺牲）。它的观点也许是愚昧的，有人批评它歪曲了神风队飞行员的事实，从某种意义上讲是在维护日本的战争极端分子。但是美国观众的主要反应可能是为什么我们不再能拍出这样的电影——关于卷入重大事件的真实人物的气势澎湃、激动人心的电影？
‘HAN GONG-JU’ (South Korea, 2014) Lee Su-jin’s subtle, deceptively quiet debut feature is a sorrowful psychological drama structured as a mystery, at the same time that it’s a hopeful coming-of-age story. The young actress Chun Woo-hee gives a compelling performance as a student forced to start her life over after a sexual assault, in a society where nearly everyone blames the victim. Mr. Lee’s movie, based on a notorious case of gang rape by high school students in South Korea, has won numerous festival awards, including best film at Marrakesh from a jury led by Martin Scorsese.
《韩公主》（Han Gong-Ju，韩国，2014年）：李秀镇的这部微妙的、貌似平静的处女长片是一部以推理片为结构的悲伤的心理戏剧，同时也是一个充满希望的成长故事。年轻女演员千禹熙的表演引人注目，她扮演一个因遭到性侵犯而被迫重新开始生活的学生，因为在这个社会里，几乎每个人都将责任归咎于受害者。该片是根据一桩臭名昭著的韩国高中生轮奸案创作的。它已经获得了几个电影节的大奖，包括马拉喀什电影节最佳影片奖，该奖的评审团主席是马丁·斯科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)。
‘KANO’ (Taiwan, 2014) With shades of “Eight Men Out” or “The Natural,” but more entertaining, “Kano” is a rousing, beautifully photographed three-hour baseball movie — about a high school tournament in 1931 Japan. The feature film directorial debut of the actor Umin Boya (“Warriors of the Rainbow: Seediq Bale”), it has historical and political points to make: It’s based on the story of a team from a Taiwanese agriculture and forestry school that traveled to the Japanese championships at a time when Taiwan was under Japanese occupation. It’s a big, sentimental, pleasantly predictable crowd-pleaser with lovingly detailed re-creations of the games.
《嘉农》（台湾，2014年）：本片让人想起了《八面威风》(Eight Men Out)和《天生好手》(The Natural)，不过它又更有趣，用三个小时讲述了一个画面优美、鼓舞人心的棒球故事——1931年日本的高中锦标赛。这部电影是演员马志翔（曾主演《赛德克·巴莱》）导演的首部长片，它有一定的历史和政治意义：它讲述的是日据期间台湾一个农林学校的棒球队到日本参加锦标赛的故事。它是一部宏大、伤感、令人愉快的影片，用可爱的细节重现了那些比赛，观众可以预见美好的结局。
‘MOEBIUS’ (South Korea, 2013) In the latest take-no-prisoners satire from Kim Ki-duk (“Time,” “3-Iron”), the penis is a malignant force that must be cut out of Korean society. The members of a stereotypical urban family — coddled son, controlling mother, philandering father — do very nasty things to one another, and to themselves, in the service of jealousy, revenge and love. It’s “Oedipus” in reverse (the parents dispense most of the violence), with the blade aimed a bit lower. The 88-minute film has no dialogue, but it’s far from silent: The soundtrack is full of the sounds of beating, screaming, slicing, moaning and knives scraping bone.
《莫比乌斯》（Moebius，韩国，2013年）：在金基德（曾执导《时间》[Time]和《空房间》[3-Iron]）最新的这部极尽讽刺的影片中，阴茎是个祸害，应该从韩国社会里割除。典型的城市一家人——被溺爱的儿子，控制欲强的母亲，喜欢沾花惹草的父亲——由于嫉妒、报复和爱，对自己和其他成员做出了非常肮脏的事情。它的逆向“俄狄浦斯情结”（大部分的暴力行为是这对父母做出的）把矛头指向了下半身。这部88分钟的影片没有对话，但它绝不平静：配音里充满了击打、尖叫、切割、呻吟和刀片削掉骨头的声音。
‘NO MAN’S LAND’ (China, 2013) The director Ning Hao makes elaborate, farcical, violent, funny movies about how greed turns men into animals. He has an eye for scenery: His 2009 “Crazy Racer” exploited the hills and vistas of the coastal city of Xiamen, while this new film is set in vast, arid landscapes of western desert. A story that begins with falcon poaching for a Middle Eastern prince spirals into a multilayered tale of avarice and revenge, much in the style of the Coen brothers, witnessed by a village woman who stows away in a truck to try to get to somewhere else and finds that she’s made a big mistake.
《无人区》（中国，2013年）：导演宁浩总是拍摄复杂、滑稽、暴力、有趣的电影，讲述贪婪如何把人变成了动物。他有发现美景的眼光：他2009年的影片《疯狂的赛车》充分展现了沿海城市厦门的山景和街景，而这部新片则是以广阔、荒芜的西部沙漠为背景。这个故事以为中东王子猎隼开始，后来演变为一个关于贪婪和报复的多层次故事，很像科恩(Coen)兄弟的风格，见证这一切的是一个村姑，她偷偷藏在一辆卡车里，想离开这里，却发现自己犯了一个大错。
‘THE WHITE STORM’ (Hong Kong, 2013) It’s a Hong Kong buddy-cop movie, so it’s death-obsessed, extreme in both violence and sappiness and punctuated by too-clever plot twists. But for some of us the genre is addictive, like the Thai heroin that gives this film its title.
《扫毒》（The White Storm，香港，2013年）：它是一部关于情同兄弟的警察的港片，所以里面肯定有人会死。它很暴力，也很多愁善感，点缀着过于聪明的情节突变。但是我们中的有些人对这种类型片十分上瘾，就像英文片名所指的泰国海洛因那样。
Louis Koo, Nick Cheung and the great, sad-faced Sean Lau play members of a narcotics squad who’ve been friends since they were teenagers, and if you’ve watched this kind of movie, you know that not all of them will survive. The director, Benny Chan, isn’t in the class of John Woo, Johnnie To or Alan Mak, but he keeps the black S.U.V.s moving and shoots the carnage stylishly, culminating in an O.K. Corral-style gunfight inside a mirrored Macao casino.
古天乐、张家辉以及一脸苦相、演技超群的刘青云扮演一个缉毒队的成员，他们从年少时起就是好朋友，如果你看过这种电影，你就知道他们之中肯定有人会死。导演陈木胜不是吴宇森、杜琪峰或麦兆辉那种级别的，但是他让片中那些黑色SUV不断移动，用新式手法拍摄大屠杀场面，高潮是在一个布满镜子的澳门赌场里进行的一场《OK镇大决斗》(O.K. Corral)式的枪战。