BEIJING — They roam the streets of Beijing, looking for illegal vendors, fire hazards and trash. They step into quarrels between neighbors, tell dog owners to clean up after their pets and try to untangle traffic jams. Sometimes, they help to catch criminals.
北京——他们行走在北京的大街小巷，寻找不法商贩、火灾隐患和垃圾。他们调停邻里争吵，叮嘱狗主人清理宠物粪便，并试图疏导交通堵塞。有时候，他们还会协助抓捕罪犯。
For the Yongshan Persuaders, a group of older Chinese volunteers who patrol their neighborhood of Fengtai in southwest Beijing, no infraction is too small in the service of public order.
这是北京西南部丰台区的“永善劝导队”，由一群老年志愿者组成。他们在社区里巡查，认为对于社会治安来说，违规无小事。
On a recent morning, members of a Persuader patrol were inspecting the balconies of a hulking apartment block for fire hazards. They knew which residents would agree to clean up their spaces and which would not answer their door.
近日的一天早晨，劝导队的一些成员开始检查一座庞大公寓楼的阳台，查找火灾隐患。他们知道哪些居民会同意清理自家阳台，哪些不会应门。
A local party official who was accompanying the volunteers pointed to one balcony overflowing with cardboard boxes, a possible safety issue. “That guy keeps pigeons,” said the official, Zhao Shuling. “That’s allowed.”
陪同志愿者开展这项活动的，还有共产党的一名地方官员赵淑伶。一家的阳台堆满了纸箱，可能有安全隐患。“那个人在养鸽子，”赵淑伶指着那个阳台说。“这是允许的。”
They see themselves as do-gooders giving back to society, though others may see them as busybodies. Either way, they are among the fast-growing ranks of retirees in China — by 2050, up to a third of the country’s projected population of 1.5 billion may be 60 or older. Many are bored at home and looking for ways to stay active.
他们觉得自己是在做好人好事，是在回馈社会，但其他人可能会觉得他们好管闲事。无论如何，他们都属于一个快速扩大的群体：退休老人。预计到2050年，在全国15亿人口中，60岁以上人口最高可占三分之一。很多人在家里待得无聊，会想方设法继续活动。
Empowered by both a cultural respect for elders and the state’s desire for control, the Yongshan Persuaders patrol in red armbands and color-coordinated T-shirts emblazoned with “City Security Volunteer.” They are part of a thousands-strong force of volunteers across the city, including groups like the Chaoyang Masses and the Xicheng Aunties.
在中国的尊老文化和国家控制欲的支持下，永善劝导队的成员们在社区里巡查，他们戴着红袖章，穿着色彩一致的T恤衫，上面印有“城市治安志愿者”的字样。北京拥有数以千计的志愿者队伍，其中包括“朝阳群众”和“西城大妈”。
“When I’m wearing a red armband, I’m working,” said Liu Yuzhen, 79, a great-grandmother and a Persuader.
“我戴着红袖章的时候，就是在工作，”已经当上曾祖母的刘玉珍（音）说。她现年79岁，是一名劝导员。
“But when I’m not wearing a red armband, I’m still working,” she said in the Persuaders’ headquarters, housed in a small building with the Yongshan Communist Party committee.
“但是，当我不戴红袖章的时候，我还是在工作，”她在劝导队总部里说。劝导队总部和永善社区党委会设在同一栋小楼里。
“It is kind of like entertainment for us,” Ms. Liu said. “It’s a fun thing to do. Also, when we are successful, we feel a sense of achievement.”
“这对我们来说就像是一种娱乐。”刘玉珍说。“是很有意思的事情。另外，当我们劝导成功的时候，就会觉得很有成就感。”
On the recent morning outing, the Persuaders approached two vendors operating illegally, including a man offering blood pressure monitoring services on a small collapsible table. The team felt he was blocking the sidewalk and asked him to pack up.
最近一天上午出去时，劝导员来到两名非法经营的小贩身旁。其中一名男子坐在一张可折叠的小桌子旁，提供测血压的服务。劝导队觉得他挡住了人行道，让他把东西收起来。
“O.K.,” the man said. “But I’m serving the people, too, you know.”
“好，”这名男子说。“但你知道的，我也是在为人民服务。”
Yang Chaonan, 80, said it was important to ask people nicely: “After all, we can only persuade, we can’t fine.”
今年80岁的杨超男说，重要的是要礼貌：“毕竟我们只能劝导，不能罚款。”
She added: “When we started out, there was lots of trouble. People would shout at us to mind our own business. But it’s O.K. now, they know who we are.”
她接着表示：“一开始的时候，遇到了很多麻烦。人们会朝我们喊少管闲事。但现在好了，他们都认识我们了。”
Next to the Pure Truth Mosque on Wenti Road, a halal meat vendor who gave his name as Mr. Yang was skeptical about the volunteers’ effectiveness.
在文体路上的清真寺旁边，一名自称姓杨的清真肉类商贩对这些志愿者的作用表示怀疑。
“Really, they’re elderly people who have nothing to do,” he said. “But it’s good they are here. Better than nothing.”
“说真的，他们都是没事干的老人，”他说。“但他们在这里也好，比没人管好。”
An employee at a nearby cigarette store, who would only give her surname, Li, said: “They do help keep the street clean. And they get rid of the peddlers.”
在附近一家烟酒店里，一名只愿透露自己姓李的店员说：“他们的确有助于保障街道整洁，还赶走了流动摊贩。”
Founded in 2007 with 80 members to help a citywide effort to brush up Beijing’s image before the 2008 Olympic Games, the Yongshan Persuaders have grown to about 200, though that number varies with members’ infirmities or deaths. The youngest are in their 50s and the oldest in their 90s.
劝导队成立于2007年，当时有70名成员。适逢2008年奥运会前夕，全市范围内开展了提升北京形象的行动，劝导队的成立就是其中一环。如今，永善劝导队已经发展到了大约200人，不过人数会随着成员患病或去世而变化。劝导员中最年轻的50多岁，年纪最大的90多岁。
After their shifts, they write up reports and submit them to the party committee.
轮班结束后，他们还会写上岗日志，并提交给党委。
“Often, their reports are really detailed,” said a local party official who gave her name only as Ms. Gu because she was not authorized to speak to a reporter. Too detailed, maybe: “They write things like, ‘Today, it rained very heavily.’ Some really get into the writing.”
“通常，他们的日志真的很详细，”当地一名党员领导说。不过或许太详细了：“他们会写这样的内容，‘今天，雨下得很大。’有些人真的很喜欢写。”因为无权接受记者采访，她只愿透露自己姓古。
The volunteer groups support the work of the Beijing Public Security Bureau and the chengguan, a municipal public order force.
这些志愿者团体为北京市公安局和城管的工作提供支持。
Since 2007, the Yongshan Persuaders have logged 12,340 “uncivilized” events, helped catch 223 suspected criminals and provided 60 items of “antiterrorist” intelligence, the Public Security Bureau told The Beijing News, a local newspaper.
北京市公安局对《新京报》表示，自2007年以来，永善劝导队共发现劝导“不文明”行为12340件，协助抓获犯罪嫌疑人223人，提供“反恐”信息60件。
While most of their work is mundane, there is a national security aspect. The volunteers are especially vigilant over holidays and around major political meetings: all were on duty on Sept. 3 during a military parade commemorating China’s victory over Japan in World War II, Ms. Gu said.
尽管他们的工作大部分颇为平凡，但也有涉及国家安全的一面。志愿者在假期和重大政治会议前后特别警惕。前述古姓女士说，在9月3日庆祝中国在二战中打败日本的阅兵式期间，全员上岗。
“They had special instructions to watch out for flying objects, including children’s toys and pigeons, and for fires,” she said. Vigilance is higher again this week for the Communist Party’s Central Committee meeting, Ms. Yang said.
她说，“他们收到了特别的指示，要注意飞行物，包括儿童玩具和鸽子，还要留意火灾。”杨超男说，本周因为共产党中央委员会要召开会议，警惕程度再次升级。
Using networks of civilians to help maintain order is not new in China. It dates from the baojia system of the Warring States period around 300 B.C., when a household supplied people to monitor the morals of their neighborhood, said David Schak, an anthropologist at Griffith University in Brisbane, Australia.
在中国，用群众组织帮助维持秩序并不新鲜。澳大利亚格里菲斯大学(Griffith University)人类学者沙学汉(David Schak)说，这种做法可以追溯至公元前300年左右，战国时期的保甲制度。当时，每家每户都要出人监视街坊的道德品行。
China has undergone rapid social change since the Persuaders were young. Today’s older Chinese grew up in a tougher times: Food and clothing were scarce, and some children from very poor families may even have been given away.
从这些劝导员年轻时到现在，中国经历了快速的社会变革。现在上了年纪的人都经历过一个艰苦时期，粮食衣物短缺，一些很穷的家庭甚至把孩子送了人。
That may make them more sympathetic to supposed troublemakers. For Yang Shaochuan, 72, a retired secondary school teacher, street vendors operating illegally are merely struggling to make ends meet. He tries to find them spots at legal markets instead of driving them away.
这可能让他们更同情那些被认为是惹是生非的人。对72岁的退休中学老师杨少川来说，非法经营的街头小贩只是在努力维持生计。他会试着给他们在合法的市场找地方，而不是把他们赶走。
Mr. Yang says being paternal gets results.
杨少川说，表现得像父亲一样，也会起到效果。
“If someone our age tries to persuade you, well, we’re like a parent,” said Mr. Yang. “We ask, ‘What problems do you have? Why are you here?’ ”
“如果我们这个年纪的人劝你，其实就像父母一样，”杨少川说。“我们会问，你有什么困难，你为什么来这里？”
Whether seen as kindhearted citizens or snoops, the Persuaders’ morale is high.
不管是被当成好心市民还是多管闲事，劝导员的士气都很高。
They even have a team song.
他们甚至还有队歌。
Back at headquarters, Ms. Yang struck up in a rich alto as her team members Xue Yuehua, 62; Hu Chunmei, 59 (whom the team nicknamed Peng Mama for her resemblance to Peng Liyuan, the wife of President Xi Jinping); and Fang Kaisheng, 68; looked on approvingly.
回到总部，杨超男用女低音唱起了歌，声音浑厚。同队62岁的薛月华（音）、59岁的胡春梅（音）——因为长得像中国国家主席习近平的妻子彭丽媛，队里给她起了个绰号叫彭麻麻——以及68岁的方凯胜（音）都露出了赞许的表情。
She sang, “We are the Yongshan Persuading team, we persuade, persuade all year round, seize on innovation and love to care.”
她唱的是，“我们是永善劝导队，常年劝导抓创新，献爱心。”