Bob Dylan said it best, in a 2012 Rolling Stone interview timed to the release of his “Tempest ” album: “Why is it when people talk about me, they have to go crazy?” More than 50 years after he first started attracting fanatical followers, Mr. Dylan was facing down a more brutal and dangerous species of devotee than he had seen before. The fans had social media, and the scholars had computers; en masse, they could track every move he made and every word he wrote, said or sang. “Dylanologist,” once a derisive term for the self-styled expert who sifted through the Dylan family’s garbage cans, was now a word with wide colloquial meaning, if not yet a dictionary definition.
2012年发行专辑《暴风雨》(Tempest)，接受《滚石》(Rolling Stone)采访时鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)说得好：“为什么人们谈起我的时候非得疯疯癫癫的？”自从迪伦开始吸引疯狂拥趸以来，已经有50多年的时间过去了，他又得面对一种更凶猛、更危险的迷恋者，是他之前见所未见的——他们是拥有社交网络的歌迷，拥有电脑的学者；他们成群结队，可以追溯到他做的每件事，他说过或唱过的每一个字。“迪伦学家”(Dylanologist)曾经是一个嘲笑的字眼，用来称呼一位专门去翻迪伦家垃圾桶的自封的“专家”，如今它虽然还没被收入字典，但至少在人们口头已经有了更广泛的涵义。
Now the world of Dylan worship has a book to call its own. David Kinney, author of “The Dylanologists,” is a cultist himself, but the book’s opening epigraph promises a reasonable perspective. (“Fan: You don’t know who I am, but I know who you are. Bob Dylan: Let’s keep it that way.”) And he starts with the innocent spectacle of pilgrims visiting Hibbing, Minn., the town Robert Zimmerman, soon to be Bob Dylan, fled in 1959 to reinvent himself as something other than a middle-class Jewish kid whose father had a furniture store. They happen to get there on the day Dylan comes home for his brother’s mother-in-law’s funeral.
如今在迪伦崇拜者们的圈子里有了这样一本书。《迪伦学家》(The Dylanologists)的作者大卫·金尼(David Kinney)本身是一个热衷迪伦崇拜的人，但书的开篇题词却承诺一个理性的角度（“歌迷：你不知道我是谁，但我知道你是谁。鲍勃·迪伦：那就这样吧。”）。全书以朝圣者访问明尼苏达州希宾小镇的无辜场景作为开头，这里是罗伯特·齐默曼(Robert Zimmerman)的故乡，1959年他逃离了这里，重新塑造了自己的形象，不再是原本那个家具店老板的儿子，一个中产阶级犹太小孩，并给自己重新起名为“鲍勃·迪伦”。这些朝圣者们来到这里，正好撞见迪伦回家参加兄弟的岳母的葬礼。
What happens? Not much. But Mr. Kinney has a chance to describe several different strata of Dylan admirers, from those who’ll eat cherry pie because he did to those who know the first name of his maternal great-grandmother (Lybba, lit up in yellow lights inside a touristy restaurant called Zimmy’s) to the man who bought two early Zimmerman family houses and little Bobby’s Naugahyde high chair. The stories are innocent and not particularly interesting.
后来发生了什么？没什么大不了的。但是金尼借这个机会描写了迪伦崇拜者们的几个不同阶层，有些歌迷专吃樱桃派，因为迪伦也爱吃樱桃派；有些人连迪伦的曾外祖母的名字都知道（她叫“莉巴”，一家名叫“齐米”的游客饭馆里用黄色灯泡拼出了这个名字）；还有个人买下了两栋齐默曼家早期住过的房子，里面有小鲍比坐过的高凳子。这些故事纯真无辜，但并不是特别有意思。
Then Mr. Kinney makes the case for hero worship by citing instances when Bob Dylan practiced it himself. “The Dylanolgists” says he was seen touring John Lennon’s childhood home, Mendips, in Liverpool, England, and asking for directions to Strawberry Fields. He is also said to have kissed the spot on the floor in Sun Studios where Elvis Presley stood while recording “That’s All Right” on July 5, 1954. So we all have musical idols. Most of us just don’t let them determine the shapes of our lives.
然后金尼举例说明，鲍勃·迪伦自己也干过英雄崇拜之类的事。《迪伦学家》中写道，有人看见迪伦去约翰·列侬(John Lennon)的童年故居，英格兰利物浦的门迪普斯旅游，还打听去“草莓田”怎么走。还有人说他曾经在太阳唱片公司亲吻埃尔维斯·普莱斯利(Elvis Presley)1954年7月5日录制《没问题》(That’s All Right)时所站的地方。所以我们大家都有音乐偶像。无非是大多数人并不让这些偶像改变我们自己的生活。
But the Dylanologists found in this slender book are the most obsessive ones Mr. Kinney could find. And too often, he allows the depth of their devotion to be an end in itself. One 12-year-old boy named Peter discovers Dylan in the summer of 1963, when he plunges “into Dylan’s deep well of words.” The same person is now “almost an old man, into his 60s, his face craggy and his frizzy hair gray, and still he hadn’t drunk it dry.”
但这本书中的迪伦学家们都是金尼所能找到的最执迷的人，而且书中往往令他们的深沉感情本身就成为一种意义。书中一个叫彼得的12岁小孩在1963年的夏天发现了迪伦，他就此“沉浸在迪伦辞藻的深井之中”。这个孩子如今已经是“步入60岁的老人，满面皱纹，头发花白，但他依然没有喝干这口井中的水。”
Most of the book’s interviewees, whose interest in self-promotion needn’t be furthered here, have become extremely knowledgeable about some or many aspects of Dylan’s huge body of work. But that’s not what makes them notable. In the case of this particular subject, it’s the fact that by 14 Peter had adopted Dylan’s zingers as his own, whacking his parents with “Don’t criticize what you can’t understand,” which was pretty unbeatable. Sent to a psychiatrist soon afterward, he brought the album “Bringing It All Back Home,” and had the doctor listen to “It’s All Right, Ma (I’m Only Bleeding”) and said “This is how I feel.” Dylan was the perfect crutch for anyone less articulate — or scathing, or baffling — than he.
书中大部分受访者（他们自我推销的意图本文中无需多提）对迪伦大量作品中的某些方面或许多方面都拥有渊博的知识。但他们出名却不是因为这个。就这一点而言，14岁那年，彼得援引迪伦的金句，抨击父母“别去批评你们不理解的东西”，这实在是无法反驳。不久后，彼得被送去看心理医生，他带去了迪伦的《席卷而归》(Bringing It All Back Home)，让医生听《一切都很好，妈妈（我只是在流血）》(It’s All Right, Ma[I’m Only Bleeding])这首歌，说“这就是我的感受”。对于那些不如迪伦本人那样能言善道而又言辞犀利或令人困惑的人来说，迪伦堪称他们最好的拐杖。
Dylanologists love Dylan’s ability to give voice to practically any thought. And as his career continued, some began to love the fellowship of the road. They dropped whatever else they were doing — often not much — to race from concert to concert, forging friendships of necessity, finding endless hours of conversation in the differences among different concerts. It’s a safe guess that anyone who buys Mr. Kinney’s book has done this at some point and understands the temptation.
迪伦学家们热爱迪伦那种令歌词能够表达几乎任何想法的能力。随着迪伦的事业生涯不断延续，也有些人开始在追随他巡演途中结下了交情。他们放下手头的一切事情（通常不是什么大事）去看一场又一场的迪伦演唱会，如果有必要就结交朋友，花无数时间讨论每场演唱会之间的不同。购买金尼这本书的人很可能在某个时期都干过这样的事情，能够理解其中的诱惑。
But Mr. Dylan kept touring. And touring. And a new breed of fan and chronicler emerged: the completist, the fan who needed to know every detail about every show. Some of these, most notably Mitch Blank, who is one of the book’s most admirable figures, have made immensely valuable contributions to music history. (Because of his exhaustive archives, Mr. Blank is credited as “hypnotist collector” on Martin Scorsese’s Dylan documentary “No Direction Home.”) Others have glorified piracy and theft, priding themselves on their ways of smuggling recording equipment into concerts and leaving no show unstolen. Mr. Kinney’s readers will learn that a camera lens can be neatly hidden in a coffee thermos with a false bottom.
但迪伦还在不停地巡演、巡演。于是一种新的歌迷和编年记录者诞生了——完美主义者，也就是那些收集每场演出所有细节的人。他们之中有些人——其中最有代表性的是米奇·布兰克(Mitch Blank)，本书中最可敬的人物之一——为音乐史做出了具有重大价值的贡献（因为他那详尽无遗的收藏和纪录，布兰克在马丁·斯科塞斯[Martin Scorsese]的迪伦纪录片《没有回家的方向》[No Direction Home]中被誉为“魔幻般的收藏家”）。还有一些人赞美盗版和偷录，为自己能够想办法把录音设备偷偷带进演唱会，把每场演出都偷偷录下来而感到骄傲。读了这本书，读者就能学会怎样把照相机镜头藏在带活底的咖啡保温杯里带进场地。
The book’s bombshell issue arrives late, with Dylanologists’ Internet access. When Mr. Dylan’s career began, he could have expected scholars to spend centuries ferreting out the obscure references in his work and pondering his reasons for free-associating in the ways that he has. Now, a little typing exposes all manner of mortification. He is a ravenous artist, absorbing material from a huge array of sources just like many great, ravenous artists have done before him.
本书的重磅炸弹还在后面，是通过迪伦学家们的网站发现的。迪伦的事业生涯开始之初，他没准就想到将来学者们会花费几个世纪的时间探索他作品中那些模糊的引用，理清他随心所欲地把各种事物联系在一起的逻辑。如今，只要打几个字搜索就能暴露出所有的丑事——迪伦是个喜欢巧取豪夺的艺术家，他从大量、各种资源中汲取素材，就像此前的很多伟大的、巧取豪夺的艺术家们做过的一样。
But who among them had packs of Googling, self-righteous cultists on their trails? Dylan’s startlingly beautiful memoir, “Chronicles Volume I,” has already been ripped to shreds by quotation checkers, to the point where he has had to address the matter of plagiarism head-on. His position: Everything comes from somewhere, and try, just try, recycling any of Henry Timrod’s early-19th-century poetry in quite the way he has. Jonathan Lethem has eloquently come to his defense with an essay about creative borrowing that was itself cobbled together almost entirely from other sources.
但是以前那些伟大的艺术家们却没有无数擅长谷歌搜索、自以为是的狂热崇拜者们跟在身后。迪伦那本惊人优美的自传《编年史，第一卷》（Chronicles Volume I，中译《像一块滚石》）已经被检查者们拆解成无数块，以至于他得正面回答这个关于“抄袭”的问题。他的立场是：一切事物都有自己的来源，他只是试着去将亨利·蒂姆罗德(Henry TImrod)19世纪用自己的方式再加工而已。乔纳森·利瑟姆(Jonathan Lethem)曾经写过一篇关于创造性借鉴的文章，热情地为迪伦辩护，然而这篇文章本身也是由各种来源仓促堆砌而成。
Lost in the gotcha mania is the paradox that the man who publicly savaged a Time magazine reporter in “Dont Look Back” apparently needed Time to jog his memory about his first year in New York. And lost in the Dylanolgists’ tale is the pervasive sadness of people who’d rather live Bob Dylan’s lives than their own.
迪伦学家们陷入了“这下我可抓住你的把柄了”的狂热之中，这是一种悖论，正如迪伦在纪录片《别回头》(Don’t Look Back)里曾经公开抨击《时代》杂志记者，但他显然又需要《时代》杂志来唤醒自己在纽约第一年生活的记忆。迪伦学家们的故事中萦绕着这样一种无处不在的忧伤：那些人宁愿活在鲍勃·迪伦的生活里，也不愿去过自己的人生。