One of the biggest police misconduct cases in recent New York history, a criminal proceeding that riveted the city this winter and was swept up in the national debate about race and law enforcement, was threatened on Wednesday by an unusual and unexpected question: Did one of the jurors, a 62-year-old retired carpenter, hide his father’s criminal past in order to be a panelist at the trial?
在纽约近些年的历史上，这是影响最大的警察渎职案之一。案子的刑事程序在这个冬天牢牢吸引了整座城市的目光，并深深卷入了有关种族与执法问题的全美大辩论。然而，这桩案子在本周三遭遇了一个意想不到的罕见问题：陪审团中的一名62岁退休木匠，是否为了在本案庭审过程中充当陪审员而隐瞒了自己父亲的刑事案底？
From the start, the case of Peter Liang, a former Brooklyn police officer convicted in February of manslaughter for the shooting of Akai Gurley in a housing project stairwell, has seen its share of twists and turns. Though the three-week trial was caught up in the furor over the death of Eric Garner, it never neatly fit the narrative of other police killings of unarmed black men around the country.
曾为布鲁克林警员的彼得·梁(Peter Liang)在一栋公屋的楼梯间开枪，导致阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)死亡。因此，彼得·梁在今年2月被判犯有过失杀人罪。打从一开始，这桩案子就充满了曲折。虽然埃里克·加尔那(Eric Garner)之死引发的怒火影响到了本案为期三周的庭审，但它与其他发生在美国多个地区的警察导致手无寸铁的黑人男性死亡的案件并不完全一样。
There was, for instance, no direct confrontation between Mr. Liang and Mr. Gurley, who died from a ricocheting bullet that Mr. Liang fired while on patrol in November 2014 in a dark stairwell of the Louis H. Pink Houses in East New York. And even the man who pursued the case, Ken Thompson, the Brooklyn district attorney, recommended after the trial that Mr. Liang should not face time in prison, acknowledging that while he acted recklessly, there was no real proof that he meant to kill or injure Mr. Gurley.
2014年，彼得·梁在纽约市东部路易斯·H·平克公屋(Louis H. Pink Houses)黑暗的楼梯间里执行巡逻任务时开枪射击，弹跳的子弹击中格利致其死亡。两人之间未有直接对抗。就连起诉彼得·梁的布鲁克林地区检察官肯·汤普森(Ken Thompson)也承认，虽然他行为莽撞，但并没有确凿的证据表明他蓄意杀害或伤害格利。汤普森在庭审之后建议免除他的牢狱之灾。
But the story that unfolded on Wednesday — that of the retired carpenter, Michael Vargas, and whether he had lied about his father — took the case into its strangest place yet: It was suddenly possible that the entire prosecution could be thrown out because of lies told by a juror about his private life.
不过，周三曝出了这名叫做迈克尔·巴尔加斯(Michael Vargas)的退休木匠的事情，涉及到他是否曾对自己父亲的情况撒谎。此事让案子陷入了前所未有的尴尬境地：因为一名陪审员对私人经历撒了谎，突然冒出了整桩诉讼付之东流的可能性。
Picking a jury has long been a crucial behind-the-scenes maneuver that can make or break a criminal trial, and yet it was remarkable that the case of Mr. Liang, which has been going on for nearly a year and a half, now hinges on the veracity of Mr. Vargas, a silver-haired man with a bushy white Santa Claus beard.
一直以来，如何挑选陪审团都是可能决定刑事审判走向的关键幕后较量。然而，彼得·梁一案进行了近一年半，如今却维系在头发灰白、留着圣诞老人大胡须的巴尔加斯一个人身上，实在是非比寻常。
The development began last month when The Daily News published an article about jurors in the case and their reactions to Mr. Thompson’s decision not to seek a prison term for Mr. Liang. In the article, which appeared on March 26, Mr. Vargas was quoted as saying that the recommendation was “a slap on the wrist” and that his father, Norberto Vargas Sr., had once served seven years in prison for an accidental shooting — a crime eerily similar to Mr. Liang’s.
这一新情况是在上个月出现的。当时，纽约《每日新闻》(The Daily News)发表了一篇关于该案陪审员的文章，涉及他们如何回应汤普森提出的不寻求让彼得·梁入狱的建议。3月26日的这篇文章引用巴尔加斯的话称：这一量刑建议是“挠痒痒”，他父亲诺韦尔托·巴尔加斯(Norberto Vargas)曾经因为意外枪击事件服刑七年——其罪行与彼得·梁极为相似。
When Mr. Liang’s lawyer, Paul Shechtman, learned about the article, he reviewed the transcripts from jury selection and found that Mr. Vargas had told the court before the trial that none of his close relatives had ever been accused of a crime.
得知这篇文章以后，彼得·梁的律师保罗·谢克特曼(Paul Shechtman)查阅了选择陪审团成员时的笔录，发现巴尔加斯在庭审前告知法庭，他的近亲都没有受到过刑事指控。
“The record demonstrates that Mr. Vargas lied knowingly and for the purpose of securing a seat on the jury,” Mr. Shechtman wrote last week in a motion to Justice Danny K. Chun, who is presiding over the case. The falsehood, Mr. Shechtman added, was “not accidental or inconsequential” but rather was “a major lie.”
“记录显示，巴尔加斯故意说了谎，为的是能在陪审团中得到一个席位，”谢克特曼上周在提交给该案主审法官丹尼·K·田(Danny K. Chun)的动议里写道。谢克特曼还表示，这“并非无意的或者无关紧要”的小事，而是“一个大谎”。
If that was not enough, The News reported that on the same day Mr. Vargas told the court in the Liang trial that none of his close relatives had been accused of a crime, he told the court in a different case in which he was a potential juror that someone in his family had indeed once been arrested — namely, his father.
如果这不足以说明问题，还可以看看其他事实。据《每日新闻》报道，就在巴尔加斯告诉审理彼得·梁案的法庭其近亲都没有受到过刑事指控那天，他告诉审理另外一桩案子的法庭，他的某位家人——也就是他父亲——被警方逮捕过。他是另外那桩案子的陪审员候选人。
Seizing on this discrepancy, Mr. Shechtman set about parsing Mr. Vargas’s answers in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn on Wednesday afternoon. How, he asked, was it possible that someone in the juror’s “family” had been arrested, but that none of his “close relatives” had suffered the same fate?
周三下午，在位于布鲁克林的纽约州最高法院（为纽约州初审法院——译注），谢克特曼抓住巴尔加斯说辞中的相互矛盾之处穷追猛打。他发问，这位陪审员的某位“家人”曾经遭到过逮捕，但他的“近亲”都没有过同样的经历，这怎么可能呢？
“I was never close to my father,” Mr. Vargas said, adding that he had been raised in a series of orphanages and boys’ homes.
“我以前跟我父亲一直很疏远，”巴尔加斯表示。他还说自己是在一系列孤儿院和男童院中长大的。
“So you lied,” Mr. Shechtman said.
“所以你说了谎，”谢克特曼说。
“That’s your opinion,” Mr. Vargas answered. “I don’t believe I did.”
“那是你的看法，”谢克特曼回答。“我并不认为自己说了谎。”
After sparring like that for 20 or 30 minutes, Mr. Shechtman asked Mr. Vargas about several posts he had made on Facebook before the trial began. The posts had an anti-law-enforcement flavor: “What’s up w/the police?” one asked. “Are the police a legal gang?” another said.
就这样争执了二三十分钟后，谢克特曼问到巴尔加斯在庭审开始前发在Facebook上的几条帖子。文中透着一种反执法的意味：“警察是怎么了？”其中一条问道。“警察是合法的黑帮吗？”另一条说。
“Didn’t you think it was important to tell the court you had these feelings?” Mr. Shechtman asked, referring to yet more posts: some about revolution, others about martial law.
“你不觉得把自己的这些感受告知法庭是很重要的吗？”谢克特曼问，他还提到了另外一些帖子：有些关于革命，有些则与军事管制有关。
Looking annoyed, Mr. Vargas said, “If someone does something that makes me angry, I speak out.”
巴尔加斯看起来有些恼怒，他说，“如果有人做了让我感到愤怒的事，我就会大声讲出来。”
While there is no universal question form for jury selection, it is standard practice in trials of police officers to ask jurors about their own and their family’s interactions with the police. But lawyers — and judges — can ask those questions in their own way and in their own words. Mr. Vargas, for one, said he was simply responding to the inquiries in their most literal sense.
尽管针对陪审团成员的选拔，并没有统一的调查表，但在涉及警员的案子里，询问陪审员他们自己及其家人和警察之间的过往，是一种标准惯例。不过，律师——以及法官——也可以用自己的方式和以自己的话问这些问题。比如，巴尔加斯曾表示，他只是在就这些问题最基本的字面意思做出回应。
“It is not unusual for jurors to shade their answers differently to different questions,” said Roy Futterman, a jury expert at Doar, a litigation consulting firm in the city. “Judges are not keen to overturn a jury’s final verdict, and this judge will have to decide if this juror did something truly egregious and was trying to get on the case as a stealth juror.”
“陪审员针对不同的问题，调整答案的口吻，这并不少见，”该市诉讼咨询公司Doar的陪审团专家罗伊·富特曼(Roy Futterman)说。“法官们并不热衷于推翻陪审团的最终裁决，这位法官将必须裁定这名陪审员的行为是否真是错得离谱，是否是一名心怀不轨的陪审员。”