A group of young artists is redefining the formerly folksy medium with sleeker, more sophisticated forms.
一群年轻艺术家用更加时髦而成熟的形式重新定义了民间艺术。
Dana Bechert
黛娜·贝切特(Dana Bechert)
Since graduating with a degree in sculpture in 2012, 23-year-old Dana Bechert has been focused on developing a ceramics line. For her highly graphic black-and-white vases and planters, Bechert uses a variation on the traditional Acoma Pueblo style of Native American pottery decoration, but one stripped of bright colors and animal figures to create something more abstract and intricate. “The carving is all done freehand, and is much more organic than it may appear,” says Bechert, who can spend up to seven hours on a single piece. She likes to control all aspects of the process, even foraging for the different colored clays she uses in the vessels and the plants she places in them. Bechert also collaborates with friends on experimental food design projects, such as recently creating a series of pour-over coffee funnels. “I think of my work as a tool for accessing the most fundamental and beautiful aspects of daily life: enjoying and sharing food and drink,” she says.
黛娜·贝切特今年23岁，自从2012年毕业并获得雕塑学位以来，她便一直致力于发展自己的陶艺品牌。她那极度生动的黑白花瓶和花盆衍生自美洲原住民阿克玛·珀布罗(Acoma Pueblo)风格的陶艺技巧，但是其上的一抹亮色和动物图案使它们显得更加抽象和复杂。“所有雕刻都是徒手完成，比外表看上去的更加自然，”贝切特说。每件作品最多要耗费她七个小时去完成。她喜欢控制制作过程的方方面面，就算寻找花瓶和花盆上贴的彩色陶片也要自己亲自动手。贝切特还和朋友们一起尝试一个食具设计计划，比如最近设计了一系列倒咖啡的漏斗。“我觉得我的作品是一种工具，可以把日常生活中最基本的东西和美联系起来，品尝和分享食品与饮品，”她说。
Natalie Herrera
娜塔莉·赫莱拉(Natalie Herrera)
Most ceramicists embrace the unpredictability of the potter’s wheel, the kiln and the glazing process, but not 28-year-old Natalie Herrera. “I wish I was more free-form, considering clay is one of the most pliable and organic mediums, but I love problem solving, angles and proportions too much,” says the Brooklyn-based graphic designer, who recently launched the ceramics line High Gloss. She developed her own processes to bring a precision to her work, using unconventional tools like a compass, an X-acto knife and a drafting triangle. Interested in playing with geometry as well as positive and negative space, she cites as influences the Modernist sculptor Ruth Duckworth and the fashion house Maison Martin Margiela, which she admires for their ability to “take a traditional object and reinvent the form by turning it on its head.”
大多数陶艺家都喜欢转陶、烧窑和上釉过程中的那种不确定性，但28岁的娜塔莉·赫莱拉却并非如此。“我也希望自己的形式能更自由一点，因为陶土是最狡猾多变的媒介，但我更喜欢解决问题，喜欢研究角度和比例，”这位现居布鲁克林的平面设计师说，她最近推出了自己的陶艺品牌High Gloss。她把独特的准确性带入了工作，使用罗盘、X-acto美工刀和三角板等非传统工具。她对几何乃至积极空间和消极空间非常感兴趣，并说现代主义雕塑家罗斯·达克沃斯(Ruth Duckworth)和马丁·马吉拉时装屋(Maison Martin Margiela)品牌对她影响最大。她说，他们“颠覆传统物品，为它们赋予新形式”。
Lindsey Hampton
林赛·汉普顿(Lindsey Hampton)
In her day job as a graphic designer, Vancouver-based Lindsey Hampton, 30, says she’s equally inspired by minimalist Swiss design and Dadaism. She likes the idea of the juxtaposition of those two approaches, “being able to marry the cleanliness of one and the chaos of the other.” The same could be said of her ceramics work, in which she embellishes simple, architectural shapes and bare clay with the same playful zigzags, paint splatters and pastel ombré fades that populate her rock posters and brand-identity work. Her techniques span both disciplines as well: She’s been developing ways to mimic Photoshop effects in her process, blending colors into gradients or stenciling and masking to create sharp edges. “I got into ceramics to fulfill a need to create in multiple dimensions.”
30岁的林赛·汉普顿现居温哥华，正式工作是平面设计师，她说自己的灵感来自瑞士极简主义设计，还有达达主义。她喜欢将两种方式并置在一起，“将简洁和喧嚣嫁接起来。”她的陶艺也有同样风格，她用有趣的锯齿线装饰简单的、建筑式的形状陶器与不加装饰的陶土，画上她那些摇滚乐海报和品牌设计品中常见的彩点和淡彩渐变色。她的技巧也横贯两个种类。她在做陶器时将Photoshop效果简化，把色彩混入坡度变化和镂花中去，制造出鲜明的角度。“我用陶器满足我多维度的创作欲望。”