MIDLAND, Mich. — As Dow Chemical’s chief executive, Andrew N. Liveris has made himself into something of an outcast among his fellow business leaders.
密歇根州米德兰——作为陶氏化学公司(Dow Chemical)首席执行官，利伟诚(Andrew N. Liveris)已经把自己变成了商业领袖同侪中的一个弃儿。
The reason? He is spearheading a public campaign against increased exports of natural gas, which he sees as a threat to a manufacturing renaissance in the United States, not to mention his own company’s bottom line. But many others say such exports would provide far more benefits to the country than drawbacks, all part of a transformation that promises to increase the nation’s weight in the global economy.
原因呢？他率先公开反对增加天然气出口，他把这视为美国制造业复兴的威胁，更不用说对他自己公司的盈利。但其他许多人都说，这类出口为美国带来的好处将远远超过其弊端，能够为提高美国在全球经济中的比重出力。
The debate has grown personal. In the words of Charif Souki, an energy industry executive promoting a new natural gas export facility, Mr. Liveris is both “self-serving” and a “hypocrite.”
争论已经发展到人身攻击。以推动天然气出口的能源业高管谢里夫·苏基(Charif Souki)的话来说，利伟诚是个“自私”的“伪君子”。
Now it seems that one constituency where Mr. Liveris had gained a sympathetic ear, the federal government, may also have turned against him. Last week, the Energy Department approved another planned project to export natural gas, the second such proposal it has accepted since May.
现在看来，曾经同情利伟诚的支持者——美国联邦政府，也要转而反对他。上周，能源部批准了另一个计划中的天然气出口项目，这是该部自5月来核准的第二项这样的提案了。
The battle over natural gas exports reflects just how starkly the nation’s economic landscape is being reshaped by newfound energy supplies — much of the discoveries in the form of oil and gas being freed up by unconventional methods like horizontal drilling combined with hydraulic fracturing.
对于天然气出口的斗争反映出，新发现能源的供应对这个国家的经济格局起到了怎样的重塑作用。这类发现中的大部分是以非常规方法释放出的石油和天然气，例如以水平钻孔结合水力压裂。
As environmentalists and industry advocates debate the merits and risks of fracking, as the practice is frequently called, its consequences are increasingly visible. Last week, the government reported a sharply improved trade balance for June, largely because of lower oil imports.
随着环保人士和行业支持者对其优点和风险的辩论，这种常被称为“压裂”的技术的后果正变得越来越明显。上周，政府公布了6月份大幅度改善的贸易平衡，很大程度上是因为石油进口量的降低。
By 2020, new oil and gas production could increase the country’s economic output by 2 to 4 percent beyond what it otherwise would be, add as many as 1.7 million jobs and perhaps reduce the bill for energy imports to zero, according to a report by the McKinsey Global Institute.
根据麦肯锡全球研究所(McKinsey Global Institute)的一份报告，到2020年，新增的石油和天然气生产可以把国家的经济产出推高2%到4%，增加多达170万个就业岗位，或许还能把能源进口账单下降到0。
“This is a giant turnaround,” said Daniel Yergin, a longtime energy expert and author of a recent book, “The Quest: Energy, Security and the Remaking of the Modern World.” “This is fundamentally improving the competitive position of the United States in the world economy.”
“这是一次巨大的转变，”资深能源专家丹尼尔·耶尔金(Daniel Yergin)说。“这是对世界经济中美国竞争地位的根本性提升。”耶尔金也是新书《追寻：能源、安全和重塑当今世界》(The Quest: Energy, Security and the Remaking of the Modern World)的作者。
But that windfall is at risk if the government permits natural gas exports to increase quickly, Mr. Liveris warns.
但是利伟诚警告说，如果政府任由天然气出口迅速增长，这笔横财就可能会处在危险之中。
“What a hand the United States has been dealt!” he said in an interview in his office here.
“美国这是抓了一手什么牌！”身在当地办公室里的利伟诚接受采访时说。
To nurture the nation’s good luck, he says, the government needs to plan an energy policy that carefully balances the interests of the oil and gas companies that want to freely export natural gas with those of industries like Dow Chemical that fear that an export boom could outpace domestic gas supplies and bring higher energy prices.
他说，为了让美国一帆风顺，政府应当规划一个能小心地平衡两边利益的能源政策，一边是想要自由出口石油和天然气的公司，另一边是陶氏化学之类行业的企业，担心出口增长可能会超过国内天然气供应量，并提高能源价格。
An Australian by birth and citizenship, Mr. Liveris has emerged as the principal opponent of unfettered natural gas exports. Mr. Liveris has founded a lobbying organization to promote his cause, and he sharply criticized an Energy Department report last December that said liquefied gas could produce $30 billion a year in export earnings without meaningfully driving up domestic gas prices for consumers.
作为一名出生地和国籍上的澳大利亚人，利伟诚已经成为反对限制天然气出口一方的主要对手。利伟诚组建了一个游说组织来推动他的目标，他严厉地批评了去年12月的一份能源部报告，其中称液化天然气每年能带来300亿美元的出口收入，而不会把国内消费者面对的石油价格明显提高。
“Why should we gamble?” he asked. “I think we should be out of the gambling business on energy policy. I mean, we’re not in the gambling business on food policy. We’re not in the gambling business on defense.”
“为什么我们要去冒险呢？”他问道。“我想，我们应该放弃在能源政策上的冒险业务。我的意思是，我们没有粮食政策上的冒险业务，也没有防务上的冒险业务。”
After spiking in the last decade, natural gas prices in the United States have hovered between $3 and $4 per million B.T.U.’s this year. That is down from a high of $12 before the recession, and a fraction of what it costs in Asia and Europe.
在过去十年内的飙升之后，今年的天然气价格徘徊在每100万英热单位3到4美元之间。这远低于经济衰退前12美元的高点，比亚洲和欧洲的天然气价格也要低得多。
That price differential is one reason exports are so appealing for domestic energy companies, who are willing to spend billions to build export facilities to ship liquefied natural gas in tankers in the hopes of selling it overseas.
价格差异是国内能源公司渴望出口的其中一个原因，它们愿意花费数十亿美元建设出口设施，来用油轮运输液化天然气，以期将其卖往海外。
On the other hand, cheap domestic supplies mean Dow — one of the biggest private consumers of natural gas in the country — and other chemical companies are now paying much less than their foreign competitors for the raw material they turn into products like plastic, raising profit margins. It could also bring back jobs to the United States as manufacturers that use natural gas for energy benefit, Mr. Liveris says, although that renaissance is just in its infancy.
另一方面，廉价的国内供应意味着，美国最大的天然气消费者之一陶氏化学和其他化学公司现在的原料成本远低于国外竞争对手，这些公司把原料加工生产成包括塑料在内的产品，提高利润率。利伟诚说，这样还能让就业机会重新回到美国，因为把天然气作为能源的制造商会获利，不过这种复兴还处在初期阶段。
Not surprisingly Mr. Liveris has become a lightning rod among economists and business leaders, particularly those in the oil and gas drilling business, who say he is espousing protectionism merely to promote the interests of his own company.
利伟诚自然受到了经济学家和商界领袖，尤其是石油和天然气钻探行业商界领袖的严厉批评，他们说他支持保护主义只是为了提升自己公司的利益。
“He is coming across as a hypocrite and a self-serving person,” said Mr. Souki, chief executive of Cheniere Energy, which won the first permit to export gas, from its Sabine Pass, La., terminal. “He wants free trade for everything he manufactures but no free trade for anybody else.”
“他给人的感觉是个伪君子，是个自私自利的人，”首个获准可以从路易斯安那州沙滨渡口(Sabine Pass)终端出口天然气的钱尼尔能源公司(Cheniere Energy)首席执行官苏基说，“只要是他生产的东西，他就希望能进行自由贸易，只要是其他人生产的，他就不愿进行自由贸易。”
Mr. Liveris concedes that the interests of his company coincide with his views. But he says that as the chief executive of Dow Chemical he also represents the interests of energy consumers at large, and he understands better than most what high gas prices can mean for the economy.
利伟诚承认，他公司的利益与自己的观点一致。但他说，作为陶氏化学的首席执行官，他也代表着所有能源消费者的利益，而且，他比大部分人都更了解天然气价高对经济可能意味着什么。
He says he remembers the impact of escalating domestic natural gas prices between 2001 and 2005, when the company was forced to cancel plans to build a $4 billion chemical plant in Texas.
他说自己还记得2001年到2005年期间国内天然气价格攀升带来的后果，当时，他的公司被迫取消了在德州投资40亿美元建一座化工厂的计划。
“I’m protecting my shareholders,” he said, adding that $5 billion to $6 billion in new Dow Chemical investments were depending on the continuation of low gas prices “and not repeating the ’01-to-’05 movie.”
“我是在保护我的股东，”他说。他还补充说，陶氏化学50到60亿美元的新投资依赖天然气保持低价，“不重蹈01年到05年期间的覆辙。”
“What would make that repeat movie occur?” he asked rhetorically. His pointed to his native Australia, which he said exported 90 percent of its gas. That has caused, he sayid, “the collapse of the manufacturing sector — and, by the way, the retail sector’s paying through the nose. We’re paying Japanese electricity prices in Australia, yet Australia is gas-rich.”
“什么行为会导致那种情况再次发生呢？”他问了一个假设性问题。他说到了自己的祖国澳大利亚。据他说，澳大利亚90%的天然气需进口。他说，那造成了“制造业的崩溃，而且，顺便说一句，零售业也正在付出昂贵的代价。在澳大利亚，我们付的天然气价格是日本的电价，虽然澳大利亚有丰富的天然气。”
Some others who are investing heavily in the gulf region, however, do not agree with Mr. Liveris.
然而，正在墨西哥湾地区大举投资的其他一些人不同意利伟诚的说法。
Peter L. Cella, chief executive of the Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, said that there was a risk that domestic natural gas prices could rise in the future, but that prices also could fall. “We need enough demand growth to keep the supply coming,” he said. “We believe markets work best when there are no artificial constraints or stimulants to supply and demand.”
雪佛龙菲利普斯化工公司(Chevron Phillips Chemical Company)首席执行官彼得·L·塞拉(Peter L. Cella)说，将来国内天然气有可能涨价，但也可能会降价。“要想保持源源不断的供应，我们需要足够的需求增长，”他说，“我们相信，当供需不受人为限制或刺激时，市场的调节是最好的。”
Mr. Liveris says that he also favors free markets, but that energy, like defense and food, requires special care to protect the national interest. Exporting natural gas is fine, he says, but not at the price of importing it back in the form of goods made with cheap gas elsewhere.
利伟诚表示，他也赞成自由市场，但就像国防和食品一样，能源需要特别注意，以便保护国家利益。他说，出口天然气可以，但如果代价是让其他地方用廉价天然气制成商品再卖还给我们，那就不对了。
“The paint ingredients need the paint can,” he said. “The paint supply chain needs trucks. The trucks go to warehouses. Warehouses go to retail. I’m not importing finished goods. I’m making them in the United States of America.”
“油漆的各种成分需要油漆罐来装，”他说，“油漆罐供应需要卡车。卡车和仓库相关。仓库和零售相关。我没在进口成品。我是在美利坚合众国制造这些东西。”