WASHINGTON — Packing to cover a nine-day presidential trip with stops in four countries — Saudi Arabia, Israel, Belgium and Italy — is a bit more complicated than packing for your typical family vacation.
华盛顿——为跟随总统踏上一趟历时9天，在沙特阿拉伯、以色列、比利时、意大利等四个国家停留的旅程而打包，要比为跟家人出门度假而打包复杂一点点。
So what are White House correspondents Peter Baker, Mark Landler and I taking with us when we accompany President Trump on his first official foreign trip?
那么，作为驻白宫记者，彼得·贝克(Peter Baker)、马克·兰德勒(Mark Landler)和我陪伴特朗普总统展开他的首次正式海外访问时，带了哪些东西？
Here’s a peek inside our suitcases.
看看我们的行李箱里都有什么吧。
Michael:
迈克尔：
On these presidential trips abroad, I take the usual things: toiletries, a mix of warm-weather clothing (it will be 110 degrees in Saudi Arabia) and cold-weather clothing (a high of 60 in Brussels), and a bunch of ties.
随总统进行这类外事访问时，我会带上一些常用物品：洗浴用品、适用于温暖天气（沙特阿拉伯的气温会达到110华氏度）和寒冷天气（布鲁塞尔温度高的时候也只有60华氏度）的衣服，以及一沓领带。
But because I’m a technology geek, my packing regimen revolves around my gadgets. I’ve got my MacBook Pro, of course, but also an iPhone 7, an iPad Air, an Apple Watch, AirPods and a big portable battery that can charge all of them. In addition, I always bring a bagful of cables: Lightning, USB-C, Ethernet, wall chargers and some HDMI adapters.
但我是一名技术极客，所以我的打包方案以自己的数码设备为核心。我当然会带上MacBook Pro，不过也不能落下iPhone 7、Apple Watch、AirPod以及可为所有这些充电的一个大大的便携式移动电源。此外，我总是会带上一堆线缆：闪电(Lightning)连接线、USB-C连接线、以太网连接线、墙体充电连接线以及一些HDMI适配器。
The other thing I make sure to do: load my iPad with movies and TV shows, for those hours sitting in a van in the motorcade. For this trip, I’ve got some “Madam Secretary,” “Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,” “Designated Survivor” and “Sense8.”
我一定会做的另一件事是：把电影和电视剧下载到自己的iPad上，聊以度过坐在车队中的一辆面包车内的时光。我为这趟旅程准备了《国务卿夫人》(Madam Secretary)、《神盾局特工》(Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.)、《指定幸存者》(Designated Survivor)和《超感猎杀》(Sense8)。
Mark:
马克
Mark tells me that he never goes on these trips without a baseball cap and 100 SPF sunscreen, a shoulder pillow and eyeshades for sleeping, extra notebooks and noise-canceling headphones for those times on deadline in big ballrooms with hundreds of other reporters.
马克告诉我，他踏上这样的旅程时一定不会落下棒球帽和SPF100的防晒霜，睡觉时用的护肩枕和眼罩，额外的笔记本以及跟成百上千名其他记者一起待在大宴会厅里赶稿时会用到的降噪耳机。
For this trip he’s also taking a stash of euros (borrowed from a colleague who just returned from Europe with extra cash).
他还为这趟旅程准备了一些欧元（借自一名刚刚怀揣额外的现金从欧洲回国的同事）。
Asked whether he’s bringing a book to help him with Italian, Mark said he would just use Jason Horowitz, our Rome bureau chief, as his translator. (That’s actually how the two met, when Mark was in Italy on a story years ago and tapped Jason — then a news aide in the Rome bureau — to interpret.)
当被问及是否要带一本帮助提高意大利语水平的书时，马克说他会请时报罗马分社社长杰森·霍洛维茨(Jason Horowitz)给他当翻译。（他们俩就是这样相遇的——多年前，马克在意大利采写一篇报道时，就让时任罗马分社新闻助理的杰森给他当过翻译。）
Peter:
彼得
Peter will pack lighter — in part because he’s covering only the first leg of the trip, to Saudi Arabia and Israel. He says he’ll take a few shirts and a blazer, some suntan lotion and converters so he can charge his phone.
彼得带的东西会少一些，这在某种程度上是因为他只负责报道此次行程的前半截——对沙特阿拉伯和以色列的访问。他说他会带几件衬衫和一件西服外套，一些防晒霜以及可以用来给手机充电的转换器。
On Air Force One, Peter will try to finish a new biography of Mikhail Gorbachev (as a former Moscow bureau chief, he’s reviewing it for The New York Times) and might listen to the audiobook he has on his phone: “Ike’s Gamble,” on President Eisenhower and the Middle East.
在空军一号(Air Force One)上，彼得会试着读完一本米哈伊尔·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail Gorbachev)的新传记（作为莫斯科分社前社长，他要为时报写书评），或许还会听听手机里的有声书：《艾克的冒险》(Ike’s Gamble)，讲的是艾森豪威尔总统和中东的事情。