Silhouetted against pastel-colored shophouses in the historic Chinatown district of Singapore, Daniel Goh leaned forward at a lime-green table on the second floor of the Chinatown Complex to take a break from his animated critique of the city-state’s rapidly developing craft beer scene. “The thing most people don’t know,” he said, “is that people used to come here to die.”
牛车水大厦(Chinatown Complex)坐落在新加坡历史悠久的唐人街区。丹尼尔·高(Daniel Goh)坐在大厦二楼一张淡绿色的餐桌前，为我们介绍这个城市国家精酿啤酒业的快速发展史。他的身后映衬着色彩柔和淡雅的一家家商店铺面。这时他停下生动的评论，倾身对我们说：“很多人不知道的是，过去，这个地方是为将死之人准备的。”
Mr. Goh referred to nearby Sago Lane, which was called “Death Alley” in the first half of the 20th century because of its many funeral parlors and coffin shops, and the grim custom of some Chinese citizens going to these so-called death houses when they were about to die.
高先生指的是临近的硕莪巷(Sago Lane)。在20世纪上半叶这里有不少殡仪馆和棺材铺，那时有些中国人有个怪异的习俗，就是他们快死的时候会到这里所谓的“死亡屋”来等死，这条街也因此而得名“死人街”。
The government outlawed such places in 1961, and many of the area’s funerary traders had long vanished by the time much of Sago Lane was leveled to make way for the labyrinthine Chinatown Complex, whose exterior is brightly adorned with incandescent Chinese paper lanterns strung in zigzags above the busy street below.
1961年，新加坡政府立法禁止了这种服务，当地的丧葬业逐渐衰落。很久以后，硕莪巷的大部分被夷平，建立了现在的牛车水大厦。这是个迷宫般的购物中心，色彩艳丽的中国灯笼悬成W型挂在楼外，下面是繁华的街道。
Home to hundreds of food stalls and sundries shops, the structure is one of Singapore’s older hawker centers, or open-air food courts. The government built more than 100 of them from 1971 to 1986 while authorities, citing waste-management and public-health issues, enticed the island’s tens of thousands of food vendors from the streets to these facilities with multiple stalls and promises of low rent.
牛车水大厦是新加坡一个历史悠久的小贩中心和露天熟食中心。这里有上百家小吃摊和杂货铺，其中的100多家由政府所建。从1971年到1986年，当局以公共卫生和垃圾管理为由，把岛上成千上万的街头食品摊贩迁移到这里，并承诺给他们较低的租金。
Though the move robbed Singapore of the lively street-food culture celebrated in many other parts of Southeast Asia, today the rough-and-tumble hawker centers thrive as community gathering spaces and lively eating houses. Here local chefs serve myriad foods hot, fresh and cheap, from Singaporean specialties like laksa (a rich, spicy, coconut broth-based soup) and chicken rice to Indian, Thai, Indonesian and even Western staples like hot dogs and spaghetti.
尽管这一举措导致新加坡不再拥有像其他南亚国家那样著名的街头小吃文化，但如今，这喧嚷热闹的小贩市场却已经成为一个兴旺发达的社区中心，和生机勃勃的饮食场所。在这里，当地的大厨们提供各式各样新鲜热辣、价廉物美的食品，包括新加坡特产的叻沙（一种浓郁而辛辣的，以椰浆打底的浓汤）和鸡饭，还有印度餐、泰国餐、印度尼西亚餐，甚至一些普通西式食品，比如热狗和意面。
It was the affordable Chinatown Complex rent, minimal start-up cost and the chance to pair beers with all these local foods that in 2011 inspired Mr. Goh, 40, to open the Good Beer Company, Singapore’s first hawker stall specializing in craft brews. Offering a choice of some 60 imported bottles, the stall proved so successful that in January 2014 Mr. Goh partnered with a fellow beer merchant, Meng Chao, 47, to set up another stall, Smith Street Taps, right next door.
由于牛车水大厦租金低廉，对启动成本要求不高，在2011年，高先生灵机一动，开设了新加坡第一个精酿啤酒专卖摊，让顾客们在品尝当地食品的同时可以喝到啤酒。他的店名叫“好酒坊”(Good Beer Company)，出售60多种进口瓶装啤酒。此举大为成功。2014年1月，高先生与另一位啤酒商，47岁的赵蒙(Meng Chao)合作，在“好酒坊”隔壁又开设了另一个啤酒摊位，“史密斯大街酒档”(Smith Street Taps)。
While Good Beer Company deals in bottled beers, Smith Street Taps began as the first Singapore stall hawking craft on tap. “It was a risk,” said Mr. Chao. “Bottles can sit on shelves, but with draft we have to turn kegs around quickly.”
“好酒坊”里卖的是瓶装啤酒，而“史密斯大街酒档”则是新加坡第一家卖生啤的酒摊。“当然这有一定的风险，”赵先生说。“瓶装酒可以在货架上久存，而生啤却不行，我们必须想方设法把每一桶酒尽快卖掉。”
Thus far that hasn’t been a problem. Now up to 11 taps from its initial seven, Smith Street Taps fast became the de facto center of Singapore’s nascent craft beer scene, going through its 20- to 30-liter kegs within two or three days. Some beers, such as the Bomb! imperial stout from the Oklahoma-based Prairie Artisan Ales, last less than a night. “People come for beers they’ll never, ever get to try, sometimes even if they travel to their source,” Mr. Goh said.
迄今为止这并不是个问题。实际上，“史密斯大街酒档”已经成为新加坡不断壮大的精酿啤酒业的展示中心。最初他们只设了7个龙头，现在已经发展到11个。20到30升的大桶，两三天就能卖完一桶。有些啤酒，比如美国奥克拉荷马州Prairie Artisan Ales酒厂出产的Bomb! imperial stourt，只要一到货，当晚必然售罄。高先生说：“顾客在这里喝到的啤酒，可能是他们一辈子都喝不到的，即使他们去原产地也不一定能找到。”
At Smith Street Taps, many local importers introduce overseas breweries to Singapore via tap takeovers, when a range of beers from a single brewery flow from most taps. Siren Craft Brew (Berkshire, Britain), Baird Beer (Numazu, Japan) and Modern Times Beer (San Diego, Calif.) are among those that have been featured at such periodic events. “It was a great night; we showed up early and stayed late,” said Matt Walsh, the head brewer at Modern Times, who traveled to Singapore for the occasion. “I was really impressed with the knowledge and enthusiasm of everybody there.”
许多当地的进口商会在“史密斯大街酒档”通过展销的形式把海外酒品介绍到新加坡来。在这种活动的当天，所有的酒龙头会被某个酒厂包下，用于提供他们生产的不同酒品。英国伯克希尔的Siren Craft Brew、日本沼津的北德啤酒(Baird Beer)以及加州圣地亚哥的Modern Times Beer都办过这样的包场活动。“那晚效果特别好。我们很早就来了，到很晚才收摊。”Modern Times的头牌酿酒师马特·威尔士(Matt Walsh)说。他是专程为本次活动飞到新加坡来的。“这里每个人对啤酒的知识和热情都给我留下了深刻的印象。”
Aside from its world-class tap list and compelling, nontraditional setting, Smith Street Taps succeeds by selling premium beers at prices far lower than those found at brick-and-mortar competitors. They can do so, in part, because their overhead is much lower.
除了世界一流的啤酒品牌和不拘一格、引人入胜的布局，“史密斯大街酒档”的成功还得益于这里出售的高级啤酒之低廉价格。个中缘由是：与其他传统酒吧相比，他们的固定开支要低出很多。
According to Singapore’s National Environment Agency, as of Dec. 31, 2014, 87 percent of hawker stalls rent for less than 1,500 Singapore dollars (about $1,065) a month, a fraction of what many centrally located bars pay.
据新加坡国家环境局(National Environment Agency)统计，到2014年12月31日止，87%的摊位每月租金在1500新币（约合1065美元）以下。这个租金也就是中心地段酒吧租金的很小一部分。
Of course, now that the pair has kick-started this craft beer hawker phenomenon, the model has caught on. At Chinatown Complex, for instance, the brothers Patrick Lim, 61, and Steven Lim, 63, opened OnTap a few stalls from Smith Street Taps in late 2014. The approach is similar, though the Lims pour only OnTap’s own beers and ciders, brewed in small batches less than 10 miles away in central Singapore. OnTap now manages stalls in the Chomp Chomp and Sun Court hawker centers, too.
当然，自他们二人创立这个啤酒摊档模式以后，这一商业模式便开始在坊间兴盛起来。比如，2014年下半年，61岁的帕特里克·林(Patrick Lim)和63岁的史蒂芬·林(Steven Lim)兄弟俩在牛车水大厦，距离“史密斯大街酒档”几个摊位以外，开了一家叫OnTap的小酒摊。他们的经营理念很相似，不过OnTap只卖自家小批酿制的啤酒和苹果酒，他家的酿酒厂就在10英里以外的新加坡中心地段。OnTap目前在忠忠熟食中心(Chomp Chomp)和太阳城小贩中心(Sun Court)也开了摊位。
As far as Mr. Chao is concerned, upstarts like OnTap aren’t necessarily competition — they’re a sign of progress. “It’s still about growing the market and just getting more people drinking good beers,” he said.
对赵先生来说，像OnTap这样的新晋酒家并非一定是他们的竞争对手——他们的出现标志了市场的发展。他说：“现在最重要的事仍然是打开市场，吸引顾客到这里来品尝上等啤酒。”