My patient came to see me every six months or so with his wife of 40 years, making the five-hour drive from West Virginia, where he managed a few businesses. He had myelodysplastic syndrome, a type of bone marrow cancer that in his case was indolent, requiring only regular shots with a hormone, but no chemotherapy – yet.
我的病人每隔半年左右，就会与结发40年的妻子一起开五个钟头的车，从西弗吉尼亚来到我的诊所，他在当地经营着几门生意。他患有骨髓增生异常综合征，这一类型骨髓癌进展缓慢，只需常规注射荷尔蒙，目前还不需要接受化疗。
While his blood counts were not normal, they were what I used to jokingly call “good enough for government work,” until another patient of mine, who was a postal worker, reminded me that not everyone found that comment funny.
他的红细胞计数虽然不正常，但原先我曾开玩笑地称这种病情“做政府工作绰绰有余”，不过后来我的另一位在邮局工作的病人提醒我，并不是所有人都觉得这个玩笑很搞笑，于是我绝口不再提。
This was a routine checkup, and I always looked forward to seeing him and his wife. When I walked into the exam room, they were sitting quietly next to each other, with books open, members of the cadre of patients and family members I referred to as my “intellectuals.” They both beamed when I entered, like old friends.
这是一次例行检查，我也一直期待着见到这两口子。每当我走进诊室时，他们总是安安静静地坐在一起，各自手握一本书，我的病人和病人亲属多数都是这种类型的人，我称他们是我的“知识分子”。当我走进时，他们像看到老朋友那样笑逐颜开。
“It’s good to see you,” I said, and I meant it.
“看到你们很高兴，”我这样说——这是我的真心话。
“It’s good to be seen!” he joked.
“能让你看到我也很高兴！”他打趣说。
We reviewed his blood counts, which were stable, and he had not required any blood or platelet transfusions since I had last seen him.
我们检查了他的血常规报告，一切都很正常，自上次检查后，他并没接受过一次输红细胞或血小板。
“I think we achieved our goal of wasting your time again,” I teased him. “Any plans for July Fourth?”
“我想，再次浪费你时间的这个目标，我们又实现了。独立日你有什么打算？”我笑问。
“We’re having the kids and grandkids over for a few days,” he answered.
“儿女和孙子们会来我们这儿玩几天，”他回答说。
“How are they dealing with your diagnosis?” I asked.
“听说你的病情，他们能接受吗？”我问。
He shifted in his seat and looked over toward his wife. “We haven’t told them about it yet,” she said.
他的屁股在座位上来回挪动了下，探头看妻子。“我们还没跟他们说呢，”她说。
I was surprised. My patient had been dealing with this serious medical condition for a couple of years, and he was usually so pragmatic in how he managed all aspects of his life. Not telling his children was more than just an oversight. I asked him why.
我很吃惊。这位病人患重病已有两年了，而且对待生活各方面的态度通常都极为务实。向子女隐瞒病情不可能是疏忽大意。我于是问他原因。
“Our son has been away, doing a couple of tours of duty in Afghanistan,” he said. “We were going to tell our daughter, but. …” He paused, trying to find the right words. “It wouldn’t be fair, for her to know, to have this burden, and not him. We were planning on telling them when we’re together over the holiday.”
“儿子不在身边，他在阿富汗服兵役，”他说，“我们是想跟女儿说的，可是……”他顿了顿，想找到合适的字眼。“这样不公平，瞒着儿子，却要告诉她，让她背下这个担子。我们打算一起度假时跟他们说这件事。”
He seemed uncomfortable talking about it, as if their family members didn’t keep a lot of secrets from one another. His illness was a biggie, because his condition could deteriorate at any time. I worried about his support network.
他谈起这些时表情很不自然，看起来他们这家人彼此都没有藏着掖着多少秘密。他患病是件大事，因为他的病情随时都有可能急转直下。我担心到时他得不到足够的支持。
“Have you shared the news with friends?”
“你跟朋友们说过这个消息吗？”
He half laughed. “Well, not deliberately. I went to the cancer center to get my weekly injection and ran into one of the people I work with, who was getting chemotherapy for her breast cancer. I hadn’t told anyone about my problem.” He paused. “You know, you don’t want people thinking the boss is sick.”
他勉强笑了笑。“不是特意跟人家说的。我每周去一次癌症中心打针，结果碰到了一个工作伙伴，她患上了乳腺癌，当时在那里做化疗。之前我没跟任何人说过自己得病的事。”他顿了顿，继续说：“你知道，你不想让大伙儿觉得老板生病了。”
I asked how they both handled the surprise encounter.
我问他，他们俩不期而遇撞到了一起，当时有何感想。
“She had been keeping her cancer diagnosis quiet, so it became our secret.” He thought about it for a second. “It helped to have someone outside of me and my wife know.”
“她也一直隐瞒着自己得癌症的消息，所以这成了我们两人的秘密，”他停下来想了一秒钟。“除了我和太太，还有外人知道这个事情，我觉得挺有用。”
Cancer, like entropy, tends towards chaos. It disrupts the ordered growth of cells, the integrity of tissues and the sanctity of nerves, blood vessels and organs. Cancer is an unwelcome house guest that upends lives and despotically redefines a person’s sense of self, in its own image.
癌症和熵一样，往往都会引发混乱。它会打乱细胞的有序生长，破坏组织的完整，玷污神经、血管和器官。癌症是不速之客，颠覆人们的生活并蛮横地以自己的形象来重新定义一个人的自我。
Amidst this bedlam, sometimes the one thing that we can control is whom we tell.
而在混乱中，我们可以把控的一件事，是选择倾诉的对象。
There are a variety of reasons people keep the news of a cancer diagnosis secret. Some are very personal (it’s my body, and what goes on inside it is my business). Some are professional (the screenwriter Nora Ephron kept her myelodysplastic syndrome a secret because she feared that no insurance company would sign off on any movie she tried to make). And some are altruistic (we don’t want others to bear the emotional weight of knowing).
人们隐瞒患癌的消息可以基于各种原因。有些是非常私人的（这是我的身体，它出了什么问题都是我自己的事情）。有些是出于职业考量（剧作家诺拉·艾芙隆[Nora Ephron]隐瞒她患骨髓增生异常综合征的消息，是因为担心保险公司会拒绝为她打算拍的电影投保）。有些则纯属利他（我们不希望别人承担知情的感情负累。）
My patient continued: “I also didn’t want to tell the kids until I could better comprehend what was happening with my disease, so I could show them that one plus one adds up to two, not to some other number. I feel like I know where things are going now.”
我的病人继续说道：“此外，我想等到对这个病有了更多的了解后才跟孩子们去说，这样我就能证明给他们看：一加一等于二，而不是等于其他什么数字。我觉得现在我心里有底了。”
Sometimes, people don’t talk about their cancer because they haven’t made sense of it themselves. It’s our job, as doctors and nurses, to be deliberate in asking our patients how they will explain their cancer to others, to make sure they understand. Keeping such a diagnosis hushed, a secret from those who love and care for us, is an unfair burden we shouldn’t allow cancer to dictate, too.
有时候人们不想讨论患癌的事情，是因为他们自己也没弄明白。作为医护人员，我们的职责就是要专程询问病人，他们将如何向别人解释自己的病情，好确认他们确实对病情有所掌握。将如此重大的诊断藏在自己心里，不让爱我们、关心我们的人知道，这同样是一个不公平的、不应由癌症来主载的负担。
He sighed, looking almost relieved as he pictured finally being able to share the news with his children, and nodded his head. “It’ll be good to let them know.”
他叹了口气，设想起终于能跟孩子们讲述实情的场景，看起来他简直是如释重负。他点点头说：“让他们知道会很好。”