People around the world are thrilled by the ease and convenience of their smartphones and Internet services, but they aren’t willing to trade their privacy to get more of it.
智能手机和网络服务带来的便利与舒适让全世界的人都激动不已，但他们不愿意为了换取更多便利而牺牲隐私。
That is the top-line finding of a new study of 15,000 consumers in 15 countries. The privacy paradox was surfaced most directly in one question: Would you be willing to trade some privacy for greater convenience and ease?
这是对15个国家的1.5万名消费者开展的新调查所揭示出的最主要发现。最直接体现隐私悖论的问题是：你愿意以牺牲一些隐私为代价，换取更多便利与舒适吗？
Worldwide, 51 percent replied no, and 27 percent said yes. (The remainder had no opinion or didn’t know.) There were country-by-country differences, but there was a consistency to the results, especially in the developed nations. The United States was 56 percent no and 21 percent yes. Britain was almost identical — 55 percent no, 18 percent yes. Germany was most privacy protective — 71 percent no, and 12 percent yes. India, by contrast, had the highest yes percentage — 48 percent, to 40 percent no.
在世界范围内，51%的受访者表示不愿意，27%表示愿意。（其他人没有意见或不知道该如何回答。）虽然各个国家情况不同，但结果存在一致性，特别是发达国家。在美国，56%的人不愿意交换，21%的人愿意。英国与美国基本相同，不愿意的占55%，愿意的占18%。德国是最注重隐私的国家，71%的人不愿意，12%的人愿意。相比之下，在印度，愿意的人占48%——最高比例，不愿意的占40%。
The study, conducted by Edelman Berland, a market research firm, and sponsored by EMC, the data storage giant, has some other intriguing results with implications for business. Consumers worldwide seem to strongly agree with the notion that there should be laws “to prohibit businesses from buying an selling data without my opt-in consent” — 87 percent.
这项调查是由市场研究公司爱德曼博岚(Edelman Berland)开展、数据储存巨头EMC发起的。调查还发现了其他一些具有商业意义的有趣结果，如世界各地的顾客似乎非常赞同以下想法，即应该制定法律“禁止企业在未经我同意的情况下，购买在售数据”，支持率达到87%。
When asked to name the leading threats to online privacy in the future, 51 percent of the global panel of consumers picked “businesses using, trading or selling my personal data for financial gain without my knowledge or benefit.” That was well ahead of the 35 percent who selected “lone/crazy hackers, hacker groups or anarchist types.” The prying eyes of government — “my government spying on me” — was cited as a serious privacy threat by only 21 percent, even in the wake of the Edward Snowden leaks that showed the sweeping surveillance programs of American and British intelligence agencies.
当被要求指出未来网络隐私面临的主要威胁时，全球51%的受访选择了“在我不知情或没有获益的情况下，利用、交易或出售我的个人资料以获得经济利益的那些企业。”还有35%的人选择“疯狂的个人黑客、黑客组织或无政府主义者”，比例低于前者。尽管爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)泄露的文件显示，美国和英国情报机构开展了大规模监控项目，但只有21%的人选择“政府监控”，认为政府的窥探是对隐私的严重威胁。
The survey seems to present a grim outlook for data-driven online businesses and marketers. But there are caveats. Like most surveys of consumer attitudes about privacy, the questions posed are in general terms. Privacy? Well, that’s a good thing, yes.
这项调查似乎为数据驱动型的网络企业和营销机构展示了一幅严峻的前景。但有一些地方需要注意。像大多数研究消费者对隐私的态度的调查一样，调查中提出的问题都比较笼统。隐私？哦，这是个好东西，是的。
But marketplaces, online and off, are arenas of particular behavior — transactions, which are exchanges of value between two parties. And online, people trade their data — bits of their privacy — all the time for convenience and for products and services they value. How knowingly they make those trades is certainly open to debate, if not doubt.
但无论是线上还是线下的市场，这才是发生具体行为的场所，双方交换价值，进行交易。在网络上，人们一直在利用自身的数据——他们的少量隐私——来换取便利或他们认为有价值的产品和服务。他们在进行这些交易时，究竟在多大程度上知情当然还有待讨论（甚至可以怀疑）。
Companies try to create an environment of trust around their products and brand. When a person downloads a company’s smartphone app, he or she trusts the company, implicitly. Walk into any Starbucks, for example, and you see that environment of trust, or at least the appeal of overwhelming convenience, as people wave their smartphones over a laser-sensor to pay for drinks and redeem digital coupons. Starbucks and other retailers’ smartphone apps collect a lot more information on those customers than the people paying in cash, or even with credit cards — personal data, buying habits and location.
企业都会努力围绕自己的产品和品牌，创造一种值得信赖的氛围。当人们下载一家公司的智能手机应用时，他或她就对这家公司隐含地表达了信任。例如，当你走进任何一家星巴克(Starbucks)，看到人们为了给饮品付款或兑换电子优惠券，举起智能手机拿到扫描器前挥动时，就能感受到信任的氛围，至少是那种巨大的便利所产生的吸引力。这些顾客能使星巴克和其他零售商的智能手机应用收集到更多关于他们的信息，包括个人信息、购物习惯和地点等，比用现金，甚至信用卡付款的顾客更多。
But the more data a company collects, the greater the risk of misuse or doing things that will make your customers uncomfortable, said Jeremy Burton, president for products and marketing for EMC. For example, if you are pharmacy chain, the data from online and offline sources that can be mined today can fairly accurately identify people likely to be diabetics. Do you market diabetic-related products to them? It is certainly personalized marketing, but is it creepy? Conversations with customers, Mr. Burton said, increasingly cover not just what can be done with EMC’s data storage and analysis tools, but also what they should do. Most companies oppose new regulations to curb data collection and use, and they may well prevail, certainly in the United States. But if we live in a big data “Wild West,” then every company has to be the sheriff of its own brand. A company’s data practices must be guided mainly by its own business model and ethics, or not.
但是EMC的产品和营销总裁杰瑞米·伯顿(Jeremy Burton)表示，企业搜集的数据越多，滥用或者做一些让客户不舒服的事情的风险就越大。例如，如果你是一家药房连锁店，目前可以从线上和线下的来源获取的数据，就可以相当精确地确定哪些人很可能患有糖尿病。你会向这些人推广与糖尿病相关的产品吗？这绝对是个性化的营销，但是这会不会让人不寒而栗？伯顿说，他们在与客户进行访谈时，越来越倾向于讨论应该利用数据储存及分析工具做些什么，而不是能够做什么。大多数公司都反对限制数据收集和使用的新规定，而且它们很可能会得偿所愿，在美国肯定如此。但是，如果我们生活在一个大数据的蛮荒地带，那么每家公司就必须约束自身品牌的行为。一家企业对于数据的实际操作，将主要由它自身的商业模式和商业伦理来指导。但企业或许并不会这样做。
In an essay earlier this year on the Harvard Business Review blog, “Big Data’s Dangerous New Era of Discrimination,” Michael Schrage, a research fellow at the M.I.T. Center for Digital Business, addressed that issue. “Tomorrow’s Big Data challenge isn’t technical,” Mr. Schrage wrote. “It’s whether managements have algorithms and analytics that are both fairly transparent and transparently fair.”
麻省理工学院(MIT)数字商业中心(Center for Digital Business)研究员迈克尔·施拉格(Michael Schrage)今年早些时候在《哈佛商业评论》(Harvard Business Review)博客上发表的一篇题为“大数据歧视的危险新时代”(Big Data’s Dangerous New Era of Discrimination)的文章，文中就提到了这个问题。“未来的大数据挑战并不在于技术方面，”施拉格写道。“而是在于管理层的算法和分析，能不能做到相对透明，而且明显公平。”