In March 2009, a bookish-looking Russian senator stepped to the podium at the Brookings Institution in Washington. The occasion was the inauguration of a new think tank devoted to U.S.-Russia cooperation on financial and energy security, and the speaker, Andrey Vavilov, had donated money.
2009年3月，一位书生相的俄罗斯参议员走上了华盛顿布鲁金斯学会的讲台。这是一家致力于美俄金融与能源安全合作的新智库的成立仪式，讲话者安德烈·瓦维洛夫(Andrey Vavilov)给新智库捐了款。
Vavilov was introduced as a brave individual who had toiled for years under adverse circumstances in Russia, a onetime deputy finance minister and former proprietor of an oil company. His talk, delivered in Russian, focused on the intricacies of the energy markets.
瓦维洛夫被介绍人称为勇敢者，曾在俄罗斯的逆境中奋斗多年，他曾担任俄财政部副部长以及一家石油公司的前老总。他用俄语发表的讲话主要是关于能源市场的复杂性。
Behind the trappings of Brookings and his professorial demeanor, though, were some more ambiguous elements of Vavilov's career.
然而，在布鲁金斯学会的排场与瓦维洛夫的教授外表背后，此人的职业生涯中有更含混不清的东西。
At the Finance Ministry during the presidency of Boris Yeltsin, he helped develop a market-based economy that would ultimately mint vast riches for insiders. He also wielded enormous power over state revenue and expenditures, including decisions over which banks would garner coveted government deposits. A parliamentary anti-corruption committee later investigated allegations against him of favoritism and abuse of power — charges that he denied but that would shadow him for a decade.
在鲍里斯·叶利钦(Boris Yeltsin)担任总统期间的财政部里，瓦维洛夫帮助发展了以市场为基础的经济，这种经济后来让圈子内部的人获得了巨大的财富。他还对国家财政收入和支出行使过巨大的权力，包括哪些银行能得到梦寐以求的政府存款的决定权。俄议会的一个反腐败委员会曾调查过对他偏袒和滥用权力的指控，虽然他否认那些指控，但指控的阴影伴随了他十年。
He had become extraordinarily wealthy during the early years of Vladimir Putin's presidency, when the oil company he had acquired for $25 million was taken over in 2003 by a state-controlled enterprise for $600 million. It was widely alleged that the purchase price was excessive and that money was funneled to politicians in the form of kickbacks.
在弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)担任总统的初期，瓦维洛夫已经极为富有，他用2500万美元买下的石油公司当时刚被一家国有企业以6亿美元的价格收购。当时，一个被广泛传播的指控称收购价格过高，而且有些钱以回扣的形式输送给了政客。
Six years later, as Vavilov helped inaugurate one new venture in Washington, his personal fortune was bringing another piece of business to fruition in New York. A shell company tied to Vavilov was poised to buy a penthouse at the Time Warner Center for $37.5 million.
六年后，就在瓦维洛夫在华盛顿帮助成立一家新机构的时候，他的个人财富也在纽约让另一块业务取得成果。一个与瓦维洛夫有关的空壳公司正准备以3750万美元的价格买下时代华纳中心的一套顶层豪华公寓。
Vavilov's purchase — all 8,275 square feet of it, with his-and-her master bathrooms and 360-degree city views — is an opulent example of how the flight of wealth accrued in the chaotic capitalism of post-Soviet Russia has been a powerful force behind the luxury condominium boom reordering New York City's skyline.
瓦维洛夫买下的面积为8275平方英尺（约769平方米）的公寓中有男主人和女主人各自的主浴室，还有360度的城市景观，它是一个富丽堂皇的象征，显示了在苏联解体后的俄罗斯资本主义混乱中累积起来的财富，怎样流失成为豪华共管公寓热潮背后的一股强大的推动力，重新塑造了纽约的天际线。
The archetype of the condo boom is the Time Warner Center. Marketed during the real estate malaise that followed the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the towers were heavily promoted to an international clientele. The Russians have come buying.
这场共管公寓热潮的典型代表是时代华纳中心。这座楼中的公寓在2001年9月11日的恐怖袭击之后开始销售，当时美国国内的房地产业正萎靡不振，因此销售对象主要是国际客户。俄罗斯人前来购买。
Many of the apartments were purchased through shell companies, but a New York Times investigation identified at least 20 that have been owned by Russians or citizens of other former Soviet republics who, in all, invested more than $200 million in Time Warner Center condos.
虽然许多公寓都是通过空壳公司购买的，但《纽约时报》的调查发现，至少有20套由俄罗斯人或其他前苏联加盟共和国的公民所拥有，这些人在时代华纳中心公寓上的总投资超过2亿美元。
“This building has so many Russians, it's unbelievable,” said Stratos Costalas, a real estate broker with Oxford Property Group who has sold apartments in the building.
牛津物业集团(Oxford Property Group)的房地产经纪人斯特拉托斯·考斯塔拉斯(Stratos Costalas)曾销售过时代华纳中心的公寓，他说，“这栋楼里的俄罗斯人之多，令人难以置信。”
There is evidence of even more Russian owners, but their identities are so carefully concealed that The Times was unable to definitively identify them.
有证据表明，这里甚至还有更多的俄罗斯业主，但他们的身份被如此精心地隐藏起来，以至于时报无法明确地确认他们。
For example, even the longtime renters of Apartment 63B in the south tower do not know the names of their landlords, although they believe they are Russian. Records show that the legal owner is a company called Daloa Group Holdings, but from there the trail goes cold.
例如，就连南楼公寓63B的长期租户也不知道自己房东的姓名，但他们相信房东是俄罗斯人。记录显示这套公寓的合法拥有者是一家名为Daloa Group Holdings的公司，但线索到此为止。
Many of the Russians whom The Times was able to identify at the Time Warner Center were players in the epic deals of the Yeltsin era that privatized vast, hulking state companies and created the country's most powerful oligarchs. And quite a few of their stories circle through that of Vavilov.
时报能够确定在时代华纳中心拥有物业的许多俄罗斯人都是叶利钦时代历史性大洗牌的玩家，当时将庞大的国有企业私有化的过程制造了俄罗斯最强大的寡头集团。而且，他们的故事不少都围绕着瓦维洛夫的故事展开。
Vavilov did not respond to requests for an interview for this article. Nor did he speak up publicly a few years ago when a mysterious media blitz of charges and countercharges broke out involving a longtime adversary, a financier and former Russian lawmaker named Ashot Egiazaryan, who was seeking political asylum in the United States.
瓦维洛夫没有回复本文的采访请求。几年前，他在一起媒体事件中也未曾公开表态，当时爆发了一场诉讼和反诉讼的神秘媒体战，涉及瓦维洛夫的一名长期对手，金融家及俄罗斯前议员阿硕特·叶佳阿扎里安(Ashot Egiazaryan)，此人当时正在美国寻求政治避难。
It turns out that Vavilov was at the center of the byzantine affair. Seed money for the media campaign came from bags of cash Vavilov had lying around his Moscow home, according to a deposition from a subsequent defamation lawsuit in New York. Vavilov was neither plaintiff nor defendant in the litigation, but by the time it was over in 2014, he had quietly spent more than $1 million in legal fees.
事实证明，瓦维洛夫是该神秘复杂事件的核心人物。据之后的一场诽谤官司中提交给纽约法庭的证词，为媒体战提供的种子基金来自瓦维洛夫放在自己莫斯科家中的几袋现金。虽然瓦维洛夫在那场诉讼中既不是原告、也不是被告，但是，在诉讼于2014年结束时，他已悄悄支付了逾100万美元的法律费用。
Pursuit of Luxury
追求奢华
Vavilov, 54, looks every bit the ivory tower economist, with closely cropped graying hair and wire-rimmed glasses. He has a Ph.D. from the Central Economics and Mathematics Institute in Moscow and is a visiting senior scholar in the economics department at Pennsylvania State University.
现年54岁的瓦维洛夫看上去很像一位深居象牙塔的经济学家，他留着渐白的短发，带着一幅金属丝框的眼镜。他有莫斯科中央经济数学研究所的博士学位，还是美国宾夕法尼亚州立大学经济学系的高级访问学者。
Yet along with that academician's image, cultivated on his personal website and in public appearances, comes a penchant for audacious gestures and an expansive appetite for luxury.
然而，伴随他在自己网站以及公众场合露面的机会逐渐形成的这种学者形象的，是一种爱好大胆举动、对奢侈品有巨大胃口的习性。
He once placed billboards around Moscow announcing his love for his wife, an actress and dancer named Mariana Tsaregradskaya. In addition to the New York penthouse and a home in Moscow, they have had residences in Monaco and Beverly Hills. Originally, they had hoped to settle at the Plaza, the venerable hotel that was undergoing a partial conversion to condos. Based on a model, they signed contracts in February 2007 for two penthouses — a triplex for $39.5 million through the shell company Penthouse 2009 Inc. and a duplex for $14 million under the name Penthouse 2011 Inc. The two condos shared a wall and could be connected through a bedroom and living room.
他曾在莫斯科的各个地方布置广告牌，向妻子示爱，她的妻子名为玛丽安娜·察列戈拉斯卡亚(Mariana Tsaregradskaya)，是一名演员兼舞者。除了纽约的顶层豪华公寓和莫斯科的住所，他们还在摩纳哥和比弗利山庄拥有住宅。起初，他们希望在广场酒店(Plaza)居住，这家历史悠久的酒店将部分房间改造成共管公寓。他们沿袭一种模式，在2007年2月签订合同，购买了两套顶层豪华公寓——通过空壳公司Penthouse 2009 Inc.支付3950万美元购买了一套三户复式公寓，又以Penthouse 2011 Inc.的名义耗资1400万美元购买了一套两户复式公寓。这两套公寓有一面共用的墙壁，可以通过卧室和起居室相连。
Vavilov stated “in no uncertain terms that he wished to own the largest and most expensive apartment at the Plaza,” according to documents filed in a subsequent lawsuit over the sale.
有关此次交易的诉讼文件显示，瓦维洛夫“明确表示，他希望拥有广场酒店最大、最奢华的公寓”。
In May 2009, deeming the Plaza not up to their standards, the couple entered into a $37.5 million contract for PH78 at the Time Warner Center, property records show.
瓦维洛夫及妻子认为，广场酒店没有达到他们的标准。房产记录显示，他们在2009年5月签订了价值3750万美元的合同，购买了时代华纳中心的PH78公寓。
The buyer was registered under the name Southerndown.
买主是以Southerndown的名义登记的。
Questions and Inquiries
质疑和调查
In February 1997, a bomb exploded in an empty Saab 9000 parked in front of Russia's Finance Ministry, not far from the Kremlin. The car belonged to Vavilov, at that time a deputy finance minister.
1997年2月，停在俄罗斯财政部前的一辆萨博(Saab) 9000空车中的炸弹爆炸了。那里距离克里姆林宫不远。这辆车属于瓦维洛夫，他当时是财政部副部长。
No one was ever arrested, and the blast was never explained. But in the brutal political infighting of that time, Vavilov was a man with a certain number of enemies, a man surrounded by suspicion.
没有人被逮捕，也没有人对爆炸案做出解释。但在当时残酷的政治内斗中，瓦维洛夫有很多敌人，而且备受猜疑。
Vavilov had joined the Finance Ministry in 1992, one of a handful of idealistic free-market economists embracing a capitalist model in the early days of the Russian Federation. He was only 31 but was already regarded as a leading expert in finance.
1992年，瓦维洛夫加入财政部。他是少数几名理想主义的推崇自由市场的经济学者之一，在俄罗斯联邦的初期就接受了资本主义的模式。他当时只有31岁，但已经被人视作财政方面的权威专家。
At the center of those reforms was the auctioning of pieces of the old Soviet industrial complex. A principal component of that process — and one of the most vociferously assailed as a corrupt ceding of prized assets to a handful of insiders — was a program begun in 1995 called Loans for Shares, in which favored banks received stakes in state enterprises in return for loans to the cash-starved government.
这些改革的核心是，将前苏联旧有工业体系的组成部分拍卖掉。这个过程中的一个主要组成部分，就是始于1995年，被称作“贷款换股权”(Loans for Shares)的一个项目。期间，受到青睐的银行得到了国有企业的股份，银行则用贷款回报了资金紧缺的政府。由于宝贵的资产被转让给了少数内部人士，公众认为其中存在腐败，因而对此事进行了猛烈抨击。
In 2001, after the recently elevated Putin began recentralizing industry, vowing to eliminate “as a class” the Yeltsin-era oligarchs, the Russian parliament began investigating a host of the former president's ministers. The review included a detailed look at Vavilov's tenure at the Finance Ministry.
2001年，刚刚升任总统的普京开始对工业重新实行集中化，他发誓要消灭叶利钦时代的寡头“这个阶级”。俄罗斯议会开始调查这位前总统的众多部长，瓦维洛夫在财政部的任期也受到了详细调查。
Acquaintances say Vavilov, who resigned from the Russian senate in 2010, lives as a private citizen of Russia, a status that makes him less susceptible to government interference. “He has no political connection,” said Sergei Guriev, former director of the New Economic School in Moscow, where Vavilov has donated money and sits on the board.
有熟人透露，2010年从俄罗斯议会上院辞职后，瓦维洛夫就一直是俄罗斯的普通公民，这个身份使他不易受政府干涉。“他没有任何政治关系，”莫斯科的新经济学院(New Economic School)前院长谢尔盖·古里耶夫(Sergei Guriev)说。瓦维洛夫曾给这个学校捐款，并且是该校校董。
Among Vavilov's enterprises is a Russian company, SuperOx, which is developing high-temperature superconductors to improve magnetic levitation technology for high-speed trains.
瓦维洛夫控制的企业中有一家叫做SuperOx的俄罗斯公司。该公司正在研发高温超导体，意在改善用于高速列车的磁悬浮技术。