In 1993, Craig Haney, a social psychologist, interviewed a group of inmates in solitary confinement at Pelican Bay State Prison, California’s toughest penal institution.
1993年，社会心理学家克雷格·黑尼(Craig Haney)采访了在加利福尼亚州最严苛的刑罚执行机关——州立鹈鹕湾监狱(Pelican Bay State Prison)中受到隔离监禁的一群犯人。
He was studying the psychological effects of isolation on prisoners, and Pelican Bay was among the first of a new breed of super-maximum-security prisons that states around the country were beginning to build.
当时，他正在研究与世隔绝状态对囚犯的心理影响，而鹈鹕湾监狱正是美国各地兴建的第一批新型最高警戒度监狱之一。
Twenty years later, he returned to the prison for another set of interviews. He was startled to find himself facing some of the same prisoners he had met before, inmates who now had spent more than two decades alone in windowless cells.
二十年后，黑尼博士再度回到那所监狱进行了另一组采访。他吃惊地发现在自己的采访对象中，有一些是他之前就见过的老面孔——这些犯人已经在没有窗户的单人牢房里被关押了二十多年。
“It was shocking, frankly,” Dr. Haney said.
“老实说，这真令人震惊。”黑尼博士说。
Few social scientists question that isolation can have harmful effects. Research over the last half-century has demonstrated that it can worsen mental illness and produce symptoms even in prisoners who start out psychologically robust.
几乎不曾有社会科学家质疑过这种隔离可能会产生有害影响。过去半个世纪的研究证明，与世隔绝会加重已经存在的心理疾病，还会引发新的症状——甚至在起初心理状态十分稳健的囚犯中也依然如此。
But most studies have focused on laboratory volunteers or prison inmates who have been isolated for relatively short periods. Dr. Haney’s interviews offer the first systematic look at inmates isolated from normal human contact for much of their adult lives and the profound losses that such confinement appears to produce.
然而，目前的大部分研究都侧重于隔离时间相对较短的实验室志愿者或监狱囚犯。黑尼博士的采访让人们第一次有机会系统性地考察了那些几乎整个成年期都被隔绝在正常的人际联系之外的犯人们的生活，以及这种监禁造成的巨大损失。
The interviews, conducted over the last two years as part of a lawsuit over prolonged solitary confinement at Pelican Bay, have not yet been written up as a formal study or reviewed by other researchers. But Dr. Haney’s work provides a vivid portrait of men so severely isolated that, to use Dr. Haney’s term, they have undergone a “social death.”
作为针对鹈鹕湾监狱中长期单独监禁政策的一起诉讼的一部分，这些采访持续了两年才得以完成，它们尚未被撰写入正式的研究报告，也未经过其他研究人员的评议。但是，黑尼博士的工作为这些严重离群索居的人们提供了生动的写照，用黑尼博士的话来说，他们已经“社会死亡”了。
Sealed for years in a hermetic environment — one inmate likened the prison’s solitary confinement unit to “a weapons lab or a place for human experiments” — prisoners recounted struggling daily to maintain their sanity. They spoke of longing to catch sight of a tree or a bird. Many responded to their isolation by shutting down their emotions and withdrawing even further, shunning even the meager human conversation and company they were afforded.
囚犯们说，长年累月地被监禁在密闭环境中，每天都要拼命努力才能维持自己的理智，不至于疯掉。有一名犯人将其单人牢房比作“武器实验室或进行人体实验的地方”。他们还谈起他们是多么渴望能看见一棵树或者一只飞鸟。面对这样的隔离监禁，许多人的反应都是封闭自己的情感，更进一步地与世隔绝，甚至回避他们所能得到的寥寥无几的与人交谈或有人陪伴的机会。
“If you put a parakeet in a cage for years and you take it out, it will die,” one older prisoner said. “So I stay in my cage.”
“如果你把鹦鹉关在笼子里很多年才把它放出来，它会死的，”一名老犯人说。“所以，还是呆在笼子里好了。”
In recent weeks, the use of prolonged solitary confinement, a practice that has been widespread in the United States, has received unprecedented levels of attention.
长期的隔离监禁在美国监狱中相当普遍。最近几周，这种做法终于受到了前所未有的关注。
President Obama, who last month became the first president to visit a federal prison, questioned whether “we really think it makes sense to lock so many people alone in tiny cells for 23 hours a day, sometimes for months or even years at a time.”
美国总统奥巴马(Obama)上个月参观了一所联邦监狱（他也因此成为第一个这样做的美国总统），他质疑道：“难道我们真的会认为，将这么多人持续数月有时甚至数年地每天23小时禁闭在狭小的单人牢房里是合情合理的举措么？”
And in a Supreme Court ruling in June, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, writing about solitary confinement, noted that “near-total isolation exacts a terrible price.”
今年6月，在美国最高法院(Supreme Court)作出的一项裁决中，安东尼·M·肯尼迪(Anthony M. Kennedy)法官在写到隔离监禁时指出：“这种近乎绝对的隔离让人付出了惨痛的代价。”
In 2012, the Center for Constitutional Rights filed suit in federal court against state officials on behalf of Pelican Bay inmates who had spent more than 10 years in solitary confinement, claiming that their prolonged isolation violated their Eighth Amendment rights. The parties are now in settlement negotiations, said Jules Lobel, the president of the center and a constitutional law professor at the University of Pittsburgh who is the lead lawyer for the case.
2012年，宪法权利中心(Center for Constitutional Rights)代表鹈鹕湾监狱中被单独监禁10年以上的囚犯们，向联邦法院起诉了州政府官员，声称对这些囚犯的长期隔离侵犯了《美国宪法第八修正案》(Eighth Amendment)赋予他们的权利。该中心的主席，匹兹堡大学的宪法学教授，同时也是该案的首席律师尤勒斯·洛贝尔(Jules Lobel)称，目前各方正在和解谈判之中。
Dr. Haney and several other expert witnesses retained by the plaintiffs’ lawyers prepared reports in the case, copies of which were obtained by The New York Times.
黑尼博士以及其他若干名原告律师保有的专家证人准备就此案发表报告，《纽约时报》(The New York Times)获得了这些报告的副本。
Dr. Haney, a professor of psychology at the University of California, Santa Cruz, interviewed 56 prisoners who had spent 10 to 28 years in solitary confinement in Pelican Bay’s security housing unit, or S.H.U., including seven men he had interviewed in 1993, eight plaintiffs in the lawsuit and 41 randomly selected inmates. For comparison, he also interviewed 25 maximum-security inmates who were not in solitary.
美国加州大学圣克鲁兹分校(University of California, Santa Cruz)的心理学教授黑尼博士采访了鹈鹕湾监狱中被分别单独监禁在禁闭室(security housing unit, 简称S.H.U.)中10年至28年不等的56名囚犯，其中七人他在1993年曾经采访过，八人是上文提到的诉讼的原告，剩下的41人则是随机选择而来。为了便于比较，他还采访了25名没有受到隔离的最高警戒度囚犯。
The inmates landed in prison following convictions for serious, often violent crimes. Paul Redd, 58, murdered a competing drug dealer; Gabriel Reyes, 49, was found guilty of burglary and sentenced under California’s three-strikes law. The lead plaintiff in the lawsuit, Todd Ashker, 52, was convicted of second-degree murder, burglary, assault with a deadly weapon and possession of a deadly weapon.
被关进这所监狱的囚犯都身犯重罪，而且常常是暴力犯罪。保罗·雷德(Paul Redd)，现年58岁，他谋杀了一名与他竞争的毒贩；加布里埃尔·雷耶斯(Gabriel Reyes)，现年49岁，犯有入室盗窃罪，并依照加州的三振出局法（three-strikes law，指对于犯第三次[含以上]重罪的累犯，采用强制性量刑准则，大幅延长监禁时间——译注）被判刑。托德·阿什科尔(Todd Ashker)，现年52岁，他是这场诉讼的首席原告，身负二级谋杀、入室盗窃、用致命武器袭击他人以及持有致命武器等多项罪名。
But most were placed in the isolation unit not because of their original crimes but because they were deemed to be gang members or gang associates, under California’s policy at the time. The state corrections department said that such long-term confinement was necessary because of gang killings in the prisons and attacks on staff members and other inmates.
但是，大多数人被投入隔离牢房的原因并不是他们所犯下的罪行，而是因为他们被认为是帮派或作案团伙的成员。该州的管教部门表示，为了避免监狱中出现帮派仇杀以及袭击工作人员和其他囚犯的案件，按照加州当时的政策，有必要对这些人进行长期隔离监禁。
Prison administrators say there are some inmates so violent or unmanageable they must be kept apart from other people. But consigning inmates to solitary for years — or even decades, as California has done — is viewed by an increasing number of top corrections officials around the country as unnecessary and ineffective, and some human rights groups have called it torture.
监狱管理人员称，部分囚犯太过暴力，不服管教，必须将他们与其他人分开。但是全国各地有越来越多的管教部门官员认为，将囚犯隔离禁闭数年——甚至像加州所做的那样，数十年——既不必要而且也没什么效果，更有一些人权组织称这种做法实际上是一种折磨。
Many of the inmates Dr. Haney interviewed talked wistfully about mothers, wives and children they had neither touched nor spoken to for years — prisoners in the isolation unit were not allowed personal phone calls and were prohibited from physical contact during visits. Some had not had a single visitor during their years in solitary.
在黑尼博士采访过的囚犯中，有很多人谈起多年未能碰触也没说过话的母亲、妻子和孩子时都怅然若失（被关在禁闭室的囚犯不能接打私人电话，也不允许与来探监的亲人有身体接触）。有些人在他们被隔离监禁的孤独岁月中甚至没有一个人来探视。
“I got a 15-minute phone call when my father died,” said one inmate who had been isolated for 24 years. “I realized I have family I don’t really know anymore, or even their voices.”
“当我的父亲去世时，我接了一个历时15分钟的电话，”一名已被隔离监禁24年的囚犯说。“我这才意识到，我已经不再认识我的家人，甚至连他们的声音我都认不出来了。”
Another prisoner described placing photographs of his family facing the television in his cell and talking to them while he watched.
另一名犯人则讲到，他将家人的照片放在自己单人牢房中面对电视机的位置，在他看电视的时候就会和他们聊天。
“Maybe I’m crazy, but it makes me feel like I’m with them,” he told Dr. Haney. “Maybe someday I’ll get to hug them.”
“也许是我疯了，但这样做让我觉得他们陪在我身边，”他告诉黑尼博士。“说不定有一天我会开始拥抱这些照片。”
Some prisoners became so disoriented they began to question their own existence.
有一部分囚犯被隔离禁闭弄得无所适从，甚至开始质疑自己的存在。
Another inmate said that the hour or so he had spent in the interview was “the most I’ve talked in years.”
还有一名犯人表示，接受采访的那一个来小时是他“多年来说话最多的一次”。
The California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, citing the continuing litigation, declined to comment on the lawsuit or on the reports of Dr. Haney or other expert witnesses for the plaintiffs. But since the lawsuit was filed, the department has moved many inmates who had been in isolation at Pelican Bay for more than a decade to other settings. All but two of the 10 inmates originally named as plaintiffs in the lawsuit are now in other facilities, according to Jeffrey Callison, a department spokesman.
加州管教与感化部(California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation)以诉讼仍在继续为由拒绝对该案以及黑尼博士和原告的其他专家证人的报道发表评论。但从该案被提起诉讼起，该部门已将鹈鹕湾监狱中被隔离监禁十年以上的多名囚犯转移到了其它牢房中。该部门的发言人杰弗里·卡利森(Jeffrey Callison)称，除了两人之外，本案最初的10名原告犯人的关押环境都已改变。
In an interview, Dr. Haney said that he was especially struck by the profound sadness that many of the inmates he interviewed seemed to carry with them.
在接受采访时，黑尼博士表示他采访的许多囚犯展现出来的那种深重的悲伤尤其令他动容。
“The weight of what they had been through was apparent on them and in them,” he said.
“他们所承担的重负已经深入灵魂。”他说。
“They were grieving for their lost lives, for their loss of connectedness to the social world and their families outside, and also for their lost selves,” he said. “Most of them really did understand that they had lost who they were, and weren’t sure of who they had become.”
“他们为自己失去了生活、失去了与社交界及家人的联系、失去了自我而悲痛不已，”黑尼博士说。“他们大多清楚过去的自己已经不复存在，却不确定如今自己变成了怎样的人。”
An estimated 75,000 state and federal prisoners in the United States are held in solitary confinement, according to prison experts. Most spend 23 or more hours a day in their cells, allowed out only for showers, brief exercise or activities like medical visits.
据监狱专家称，在美国的联邦和各州的监狱中，估计有75000名囚犯被隔离监禁。其中大多数人每天有23小时以上待在单人牢房中，只有洗澡、简短地做做运动或求医之类的时候才被允许出来。
Prison experts say the use of long-term isolation escalated in the 1980s and 1990s, when many states, dealing with gang violence and overcrowding caused by stiffer sentences, built super-maximum-security facilities intended to house “the worst of the worst.”
监狱专家表示，20世纪80年代和90年代，许多州为了应对帮派暴力以及因严刑峻法导致的监狱过度拥挤，日益频繁地使用隔离监禁，建立起最高警戒度监狱来关押那些“人渣中的人渣”。
In recent years, however, a growing number of states — driven by lawsuits, budgetary constraints and public opinion — have begun to reduce the number of prisoners in isolation. Prison consultants called in by state systems to assess the risks posed by the prisoners in solitary have often found that only a small minority require such restricted confinement.
然而，近年来，在诉讼、预算限制和公众舆论的推动下，越来越多的州开始减少隔离监禁的在押犯的人数。加州刑事司法系统请监狱顾问来评估被隔离关押的囚犯们的危险性，结果发现只有其中的一小部分人有必要受到这样的限制约束。
Pelican Bay, when it opened in 1989 in a remote area near the Oregon border, quickly gained a reputation as one of the most severe penal institutions in the nation. The sprawling complex houses more than 2,700 prisoners, more than 1,000 of them in solitary confinement.
鹈鹕湾监狱位于加州与俄勒冈州边境的一个偏远地区，自1989年开设后，它迅速成为全美最严厉的刑罚机构之一。在它那庞杂的建筑中关押着2700多名囚犯，其中1000多人受到隔离监禁。
Other California prisons also have isolation units. But Pelican Bay’s S.H.U. was designed to minimize human interaction. The windowless, 7.6-feet-by-11.6-feet cells were built to face concrete walls. Doors opened and closed electronically. Corrections officers spoke to the inmates through intercoms.
加州的其它监狱也设有禁闭室。但是，鹈鹕湾监狱设置S.H.U.的目的却是为了尽可能地减少人与人之间的交流互动。这些单人牢房长11.6英尺（约合3.5米）宽7.6英尺（约合2.3米），没有窗户，囚犯每天所能面对的就只有混凝土墙壁。牢门的开闭都使用电子化控制。狱警通过对讲机跟犯人讲话。
Although prisoners could communicate with other inmates by shouting through steel doors perforated with little holes, or the ventilation shafts, they otherwise had little interaction.
尽管囚犯可以隔着带小孔的铁门或借助通风竖井与其他囚犯喊话，但除此之外别无任何交流。
“If you go to Corcoran, there’s a window; if you go to Tehachapi, there’s a window,” said Joseph Harmon, 51, a former gang leader who spent eight years in isolation at Pelican Bay after five years in solitary confinement at other prisons.
“科克伦和特哈查比的监狱都有窗户，“约瑟夫·哈蒙(Joseph Harmon)说。他现年51岁，以前是一名黑帮头目，在鹈鹕湾他被隔离监禁长达8年，在那之前他也在其他监狱被单独关押了5年。
“At Pelican Bay, there is no other reality,” said Mr. Harmon, who said he was sent there after a violent attack on another inmate but eventually renounced gang activity and became a pastor in Stockton, Calif. “It was a tomb. It is concrete tomb.”
“在鹈鹕湾监狱，现实就是如此，”哈蒙先生说，他是在袭击了另一犯人后被送来这里的，但他称自己已经金盆洗手了，还成为了加州斯托克顿市的一名牧师。“那里（鹈鹕湾监狱）是一座坟墓，一座用混凝土铸成的坟墓。”
Gang members make up a significant portion of the inmates in solitary confinement around the country, in most cases placed there for acts of violence or disruption.
在美国各地，单独监禁的囚犯基本都以帮派或犯罪团伙的成员为主，他们大多都是因为暴力行为或破坏行为被关进去的。
But until recently in California, any prisoner deemed to be a gang member or an associate of gang members, regardless of the prisoner’s behavior, was sent to Pelican Bay or one of the state’s three other security housing units for an indefinite period.
但在加州，只要被视为帮派或犯罪团伙成员，或者被认为与他们有任何关系，无论犯人的行为如何，都会被送进鹈鹕湾或其他三个设有禁闭室的监狱中的单独囚室里，而且没有固定的禁闭期限。
The state’s gang policy shifted after several hunger strikes by inmates at Pelican Bay and other prisons and criticism by civil rights groups. The corrections department now uses different criteria to place inmates in isolation, and it has created a program that allows them to eventually work their way out.
在鹈鹕湾监狱和其它监狱的一些囚犯绝食抗议后，加州对待帮派团伙的政策受到了民权组织的批评，进而有所改变。管教部门现在使用了不同的标准来判断哪些犯人需要被隔离关押，并建立了一个程序来帮助他们通过努力最终脱离禁闭状态。
Mr. Callison, the department spokesman, said that 1,081 inmates were currently housed in the security housing unit at Pelican Bay for indefinite terms. Of those, 34 have been there for more than 10 years and 28 for more than 20 years; in 2012, there were 308 inmates in the security unit who had been there for more than a decade. Most of those longtime inmates have entered the step-down program, Mr. Callison said.
该部门的发言人卡利森先生说，目前鹈鹕湾监狱禁闭室在押囚犯1081人，关押期限不定。其中，34人已被禁闭10年以上，28人被禁闭20年以上。而在2012年，被关进禁闭室的囚犯中有308人被关了十年以上。卡利森先生称，对其中大多数长期囚犯的禁闭已经开始逐步放松。
Civil rights lawyers, however, have criticized the department’s program, saying that it takes too long to complete and that inmates are still held in isolation unnecessarily.
然而，民权律师仍批评该部门的这一程序需要很长时间才能全部完成，而在此期间囚犯们仍然遭受着不必要的隔离监禁。
In a report prepared for the plaintiffs’ lawyers in the suit, James F. Austin, a corrections consultant, called the department’s revised procedures for assigning inmates to isolation “grossly inadequate.”
在为该案的原告律师准备的一份报告中，管教顾问詹姆斯·F·奥斯汀(James F. Austin)称该部门重新划分需要隔离禁闭的犯人的修正程序“严重短缺”。
The step-down program, Dr. Austin added, was “flawed in its basic structure and needs to be significantly revised.”
奥斯汀博士还补充说，逐步放松监禁的程序“在基本结构上存在缺陷，需要大幅修改。”
In 1993, the prisoners Dr. Haney interviewed reported high rates of psychiatric complaints like depression, irrational anger and confused thinking, and stress symptoms like dizziness and sweating hands.
1993年，在黑尼博士采访的囚犯中，有很多人报告自己出现了精神病的症状，如抑郁、非理性的愤怒、思维混乱以及头晕、手汗等应激症状。
When he returned to Pelican Bay, he expected that over two decades, those men would have adjusted to their circumstances.
当黑尼博士再次来到鹈鹕湾监狱时，他以为经过二十年的时间，这些人应该已经适应了环境。
But the inmates, Dr. Haney found, still had many of the same symptoms. “The passage of time had not significantly ameliorated their pain,” he wrote.
但事实并非如此，黑尼博士发现这些囚犯中仍然存在着上述的大部分症状。“时间的流逝并没能显著地减轻他们的痛苦，”他写道。
For comparison, Dr. Haney also interviewed 25 randomly selected maximum-security inmates at Pelican Bay who were not in solitary confinement.
为了便于比较，黑尼博士还从鹈鹕湾监狱中随机选择了25名没有受到隔离禁闭的最高警戒度囚犯，并对他们也进行了采访。
While 63 percent of the men in solitary for more than 10 years said they felt close to an “impending breakdown,” only 4 percent of the maximum-security inmates reported feeling that way.
在隔离禁闭超过10年的犯人中，有63%称自己感到“快要崩溃”了，而在最高警戒度囚犯中有这种感觉的人只占4%。
Similarly, among the prisoners in isolation, 73 percent reported chronic depression and 78 percent said they felt emotionally flat, compared with 48 percent and 36 percent among the maximum-security inmates.
同样，在受到隔离的囚犯中，有73%报告自己存在慢性抑郁症，78%称自己感到生活枯燥乏味，提不起劲儿来，相比之下，在最高警戒度囚犯中有上述感觉的分别只占48%和36%。
In depositions prepared for the Pelican Bay lawsuit, the inmates in long-term solitary also described having anxiety, paranoia, perceptual disturbances and deep depression.
在为鹈鹕湾监狱的官司准备证词时，被长期隔离禁闭的犯人们还表示自己存在焦虑、偏执、知觉障碍和重度抑郁。
One plaintiff, Mr. Reyes,said he had severe insomnia and that in the silence of the isolation unit, he sometimes heard a voice calling his name and cell number. Other times, he said, “I just see spots, just little things move.”
原告之一雷耶斯先生称，他患有严重的失眠，而且在寂静的禁闭室内，他有时会听到一个声音在念他的名字和手机号码。还有时候，他说，“我会看到眼前有小斑点小东西什么的动来动去。”
Mr. Redd, said that his dreams were often violent but that they became that way only after coming to Pelican Bay.
雷德先生说，他老是做充满暴力的梦，但这是他被关进鹈鹕湾监狱后才出现的情况。
“I didn’t even have dreams,” he said. “I didn’t even have thoughts of looking up at the top of my bunk and you see cracks on the bunk and say, ‘Hey, man, if they got a little earthquake, this wall, this top bunk is going to fall down on you.’ You know, you start getting a little nervous thing.”
“我甚至完全不做梦，”他说。“我甚至从没有想过从我的床铺往上看。你看见那铺位上的裂缝时还说：‘嘿，伙计，如果发生个小地震，这道墙、这上铺就会塌在你身上。’你看，你开始变得有点紧张兮兮的。”
Locked in his cell, Mr. Redd said, he often plunged into despair.
雷德先生说，被锁在单人牢房里，让他经常陷入绝望的境地。
“It’s not to the point where you want to commit suicide,” he said, “but sometimes, I’m at the point that I’d be wanting to write the judge and say, ‘Just give me the death penalty. Just give me the death penalty, man.’ ”
“虽然并没有到让人想自杀的地步，”他说，“但有时候，我会有种冲动想给法官写信，求他：‘判我死刑。伙计，给我个痛快吧。’ ”
Studies have found that suicides among prisoners in solitary confinement, who make up 3 to 8 percent of the nation’s prison population, account for about 50 percent of prison suicides. Cutting and other forms of self-harm are also more common in isolation units than in less restrictive settings.
有研究发现，受到单独监禁的囚犯占全美监狱囚犯总数的3-8%，但前者中自杀者的人数却高达所有狱中自杀人数的50%。较之受限制较少的环境中的犯人，关在禁闭室中的犯人割伤自己或发生其他形式的自我伤害的情况也更为常见。
Mr. Redd, who spent more than 11 years in Pelican Bay, has now been moved to a treatment facility at the State Prison at Corcoran.
雷德先生已经在鹈鹕湾监狱里待了11年以上，现在，他已被转移到了科克伦市加州州立监狱(State Prison)中的治疗机构。
But other inmates’ experiences suggest the effects of his incarceration at Pelican Bay are likely to linger.
但从其他囚犯的经历来看，他在鹈鹕湾监狱受到禁闭所造成的影响很可能延续下去。
Dr. Terry Kupers, a psychiatrist and an expert on prison mental health issues, found in interviews of former Pelican Bay inmates conducted for the lawsuit that even years after their release, many still carried the psychological legacy of their confinement. They startled easily, avoided crowds, sought out confined spaces and were overwhelmed by sensory stimulation.
精神病学家、监狱心理健康问题专家特里·屈珀斯(Terry Kupers)因该案采访了此前关押在鹈鹕湾监狱的一些囚犯，他发现即使在获释数年后，其中许多人仍然遗留着因禁闭造成的心理后遗症。他们很容易受惊，会刻意回避人群，寻找封闭的空间，且无法承受感官刺激。
“They become very impaired in terms of relating to other people,” Dr. Kupers said.
“他们在与他人相处方面受到了很大的损害，”屈珀斯博士说。
Lonnie Rose, 64, was convicted of drug possession and sentenced under California’s three-strikes law. He was released in 2013 after eight years in isolation. At Pelican Bay, he said, he had worked hard to stay healthy.
朗尼·罗斯(Lonnie Rose)，现年64岁，犯有藏毒罪，并根据加州的三振出局法被判刑。2013年，也就是他被隔离监禁八年后，他被释放了。他说在鹈鹕湾监狱时，他一直在努力保持健康。
“I was pretty much resigned to spend the rest of my life in that cell,” he said. “But what we do is make the best of a bad situation. I studied, I exercised; one day turns into another.”
“我基本已经认命了，想着自己可能将在那单人牢房中了此残生，”他说。“但我们总要尽全力扭转最坏的局面。我学习，锻炼，日复一日。”
Still, he said, he has difficulty in crowds, and his obsessive-compulsive tendencies, which worsened in solitary, have persisted.
不过，他还是难以适应人群拥挤的环境，他说，而且，在隔离禁闭中被恶化了的强迫倾向仍然存在。
“Everything has to be just so,” he said. “Being in a concrete box for a long time makes you even more O.C.D.”
“所有的一切都必须井井有条，”他说。“长期被关在混凝土箱子里会让你的强迫症(O.C.D.)更加严重。”
Mr. Harmon, the former gang leader who was released from Pelican Bay in 2010, said that even five years later, he does not like people touching him.
2010年，前黑帮头目哈蒙先生从鹈鹕湾监狱里释放出来，但他说即使现在已经过了五年，他仍然不喜欢被别人碰触。
“As a pastor, it’s hard,” he said. “People come up and want to touch you, they want to hug you.”
“身为一名牧师，这很麻烦，”他说。“人们总会上前来想摸摸你，还想拥抱你。”
Mr. Harmon is married now and said he had put his past life behind him. But a few times a month, he is seized with the urge be alone in a small, silent space. He tells his wife, “Don’t talk to me,” and retreats to the bedroom.
现在哈蒙先生已经结婚了，他说他已把过去的生活都抛之脑后。但一个月里总会有那么几次，他会忍不住要将自己关在狭小、安静的地方一个人待着。他告诉妻子“不要跟我说话”，然后自己躲进卧室。
“It’s just something that takes over my being,” he said.
“这种时候，隔离禁闭留下的阴影再度笼罩了我的身心，”他说。
Mr. Harmon said he thought he deserved to be in solitary confinement for a time.
哈蒙先生承认，自己所犯下的罪行理当受到一段时间的单独监禁。
“There are violent men in prison, and I was one of them,” he said. But, he added, “I’m against long-term mental torture.”
“监狱里确实有很多暴力的人，我就是其中之一，”他说。但是，他又补充道：“我反对长期的精神折磨。”
He compared an inmate in long-term isolation at Pelican Bay to a dog kept in a kennel for 10 years.
他将在鹈鹕湾监狱中受到长期隔离监禁的犯人比作在狗窝里关了10年的狗。
“Let that dog out of that cage and see how many people it bites,” he said. “I don’t understand why people can’t understand that concept. It’s simple.”
“把那狗放出笼子，看它还能咬多少人，”他说。“我真不明白为什么人们就是无法理解，这个道理明明很简单。”