Erez Zohar was desperate. The neighbors’ air-conditioners outside his $1.2 million condo hummed and rattled around the clock through the summer and into the fall. His patio, larger than the living room, was unusable. Nights with the windows open were impossible.
埃雷兹·祖海尔(Erez Zohar)陷入了绝望。在他那栋价值120万美元（约合人民币726万元）的共管公寓(condo)外，邻居家的空调从早到晚嗡嗡响个不停，这种情况从夏天一直持续到了入秋。他家的露台比客厅还要大，可惜无法享用。窗户大敞的美妙夜晚，也根本不要想。
“It got to the point where my wife told me we have to move,” said Mr. Zohar, who works for a software company that scours the Internet for potential credit-card fraud.
“以至于后来我的妻子对我说，我们必须搬走，”祖海尔说。祖海尔供职于一家侦测潜在网络信用卡欺诈活动的软件公司。
He called Mason Wyatt, a noise specialist who prescribes treatments to quiet the throbbing and thundering city. Mr. Wyatt recommended making mufflers, essentially boxlike covers with sound-absorbing tubing and material inside, and fitting them over the neighbors’ air-conditioners. He said they would reroute the sound — for a price: about $1,000 apiece, less if Mr. Zohar did some of the carpentry himself.
祖海尔就向噪声专家梅森·怀亚特(Mason Wyatt)求助。怀亚特专为人们解决城市噪声问题、建设安静的都市环境出谋划策。他的建议是制作消声器，实质上就是一种箱形外罩，内部填充了吸音的管道和材料，然后将其置于邻居家的空调之上。他表示，这样能改变声音的传播路径——代价是，每台消声器需要1000美元（约合人民币6049元）的制作成本，除非祖海尔自己做一些木工活。
If the city seems noisier than ever, soundproofers like Mr. Wyatt say they are busier than ever as consumers search for quiet. People complain that their coffee cups are rattling on the kitchen table, that the neighbor’s dog is barking day and night, that the neighbor’s subwoofer is generating that low, low pipe-organ sound that makes the walls tremble.
怀亚特等噪声专家都表示，如果说都市环境的嘈杂已经到了空前的地步，那么随着消费者们开始寻求清静，噪声专家的工作也变得比以往任何时候都要忙碌了。人们抱怨他们的咖啡杯在餐桌上哒哒作响，抱怨邻居家的狗一天到晚叫个不停，抱怨邻居家的重低音喇叭制造出的那种格外低沉的管风琴声，让墙壁都振起来了。
And that is just the inside noise. Outside, there are bus brakes that squeal in the morning, jackhammers that pound during dinner parties and subways that are both heard and felt, day and night.
这还只是出自室内的噪音。来自外部的呢？早晨听到公交车尖利的刹车声，晚餐会上传来手提电钻的巨响，还有从早到晚都能听到、感觉到的地铁轰鸣。
So it is no surprise that noise is the No. 1 reason people call 311, New York City’s help line. “That says a lot about all the issues you’re dealing with in New York,” said Benjamin H. Sachwald, a vice president who specializes in acoustics at AKRF, an engineering consulting firm in Manhattan.
因此，无怪乎噪音问题已成为人们拨打311“纽约市求救热线”(New York City’s help line)的头号原因。“这很能说明你在纽约正在面临的全部问题，”本杰明·H·萨奇瓦尔德(Benjamin H. Sachwald)表示，他是曼哈顿工程咨询公司AKRF的副总裁，专业领域是声学。
The construction is endless. Dozens of new buildings are rising, and two major projects beneath the streets are bringing unusual levels of noise and vibration to the East Side of Manhattan: the Second Avenue subway and the Long Island Rail Road’s expansion to Grand Central Terminal.
施工总是没完没了。数十栋新建筑正在拔地而起；两项重大的地下工程——第二大道地铁(Second Avenue subway)和长岛铁路(Long Island Rail Road)通往中央车站(Grand Central Terminal)的扩建路段，正为曼哈顿东区带来空前剧烈的噪声和振动。
Last year, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s president of capital construction, Michael Horodniceanu, had to shout to be heard at a news conference about construction noise on the Second Avenue project.
去年，在一次新闻发布会上，大都会运输署(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)的基建部负责人迈克尔·霍罗德尼恰努(Michael Horodniceanu)不得不扯开嗓门大喊，否则观众就听不见他说话。这次发布会的主题，正是第二大道地铁项目的施工噪音问题。
“If you really want quiet,” he said, “go to the country.”
“如果你真想要清静，”他说，“就去郊区住吧。”
That was a year after the transportation authority said it had stopped underground blasts after 7 p.m. on weekdays. On Friday, the agency said the last blast had taken place beneath East 86th Street on Monday, a little over four years after the first explosion, which was detonated beneath East 96th Street.
距此发布会一年之前，运输署曾表示，已停止了工作日晚7时后的地下爆破施工。周五（指2013年11月22日——译注），运输署又表示，最近一次爆破于周一（11月18日——译注）在东86街的地下进行，与东96街地下的首次爆破，已经时隔四年有余。
As for the Long Island Rail Road project beneath Grand Central, the M.T.A. said several months ago that it had completed the last of about 2,400 explosions deep below the streets, where the new tracks will be laid. For each explosion, sandhogs packed in several hundred pounds of blasting powder. Stuart Levy of the Vibration Eliminator Company said things should quiet down once trains start running, because the tracks will be “isolated” on vibration-absorbing pads, a technique he said had been used on the BART system in California in the 1970s.
至于中央车站地下的长岛铁路项目，大都会运输署在几个月前表示，街面下方深处的2400次爆破施工已全部结束，新轨道将在地下深处铺设。每次爆破施工，隧道挖掘工都会装填几百磅的炸药。振动防护产品生产商Vibration Eliminator Company的斯图尔特·利维(Stuart Levy)表示，通车之后，噪音马上就会消失，因为轨道会被其下的吸震垫“隔离”。他说，这项技术早在20世纪70年代，就应用于加州的捷运系统(BART system)中了。
New York City revised its noise code in 2007, requiring developers to develop a “noise mitigation plan” before beginning major projects. But sometimes developers discover noise they did not know they would have to mitigate.
纽约市2007年修改了噪音法规，要求开发商在开展重大项目前制定一份“消减噪音计划”(noise mitigation plan)。不过有时候，开发商也会遭遇他们事先未曾预料到的噪音问题。
That was the case as an apartment house began to take shape at 65th Street and Lexington Avenue. The developer, Toll Brothers City Living, had rented space in a building next door as the headquarters for its construction team. Peter J. Monte, a senior vice president of the company, remembered his reaction to the rumble during the first meeting in the conference room.
第65街和莱克星顿大道(Lexington Avenue)交汇处的一栋公寓楼，在修建中就遇到了这个问题。开发商Toll Brothers City Living租下隔壁大楼的办公空间，作为施工队的总部。公司的高级副总裁彼得·J·蒙特(Peter J. Monte)回忆起自己在会议室第一次开会时，对窗外隆隆声的反应。
“I said, ‘Jeez, what was that?' ” he recalled. “My construction team said, ‘Oh, yeah, that’s the subway. We’ve been hearing that quite frequently.’ You could actually feel it.”
“我说，‘天哪，那是什么声音？’”他回忆道，“我的施工队回答说，‘哦，对，那是地铁。我们经常听到。’你确实能感觉到那颤动。”
He consulted Mr. Sachwald, who recommended an important design change for the new building: adding material originally developed as a filler for ski boots. On the slopes, it absorbed vibrations from hard downhill maneuvers. In the basement on Lexington Avenue, Mr. Monte said, it “decoupled” the foundation from the adjacent ground, reducing the vibrations from the subway. He said surveys had shown the filler did its job in that building so well that the team was using it on another building, at Park Avenue and East 89th Street, adjacent to the tunnel that carries Metro-North Railroad trains toward Harlem.
为此，他咨询了萨奇瓦尔德。后者建议他在新大楼的设计上做出重大改变：加入原本用于制作滑雪靴填充物的材料。当滑雪者在坡道上急速下滑时，这种材料可以吸收靴底的震动。蒙特表示，将其填充到莱克星顿大道这栋公寓楼的地基中，可使之与周边的土层“分割”开，减少来自地铁的震动。他说，调查表明，使用填充物的收效甚佳，开发团队已将其用到另一栋位于公园大道和东89街间的大楼中去了。该楼旁边就是铁路隧道，大都会北方铁路(Metro-North Railroad)的列车途经此处，驶向哈莱姆区(Harlem)。
Mr. Sachwald said changing neighborhoods had exposed people to noise in new ways. Long Island City, in Queens, and Greenpoint, in Brooklyn, were old manufacturing centers but are now mainly residential. The elevated subway tracks in Long Island City were not considered a problem when the area was dominated by small factories. “It doesn’t take an acoustical consultant to know that subway trains produce noise,” Mr. Sachwald said. “That doesn’t mean a site is unfit for residential use, it just means thought has to go into the design so people who live there won’t be bothered by vibration and sound.”
萨奇瓦尔德说，不断变迁的住宅区，正通过新的方式使人们暴露于噪音环境中。皇后区的长岛市(Long Island City)和布鲁克林的绿点区(Greenpoint)，原本都是老制造业中心；而如今它们主要是住宅区了。当年长岛的建筑以小工厂为主，高架地铁线的噪音并不是问题。“不用问声学顾问你也明白，地铁会产生噪音，”萨奇瓦尔德说，“这并不意味着周边地区就不能住人，只不过这里的建筑需要经过特殊设计，使居民不受振动和噪音的困扰。”
Sometimes the problem is not the world outside, or the neighbors.
有时候，问题并不在于外部环境，也不在于邻居。
“I’m the problem,” said Anthony Manoli, who lives on the 12th floor of a building on the Upper West Side. “I’m an opera coach.” From his apartment he has worked with big voices from the Metropolitan Opera, like the soprano Sondra Radvanovsky and the mezzo-soprano Dolora Zajick.
“我就是制造噪音的人，”安东尼·马诺利(Anthony Manoli)说。他住在上西区一栋大楼的12层，“我是一名歌剧指导。”他在自己的寓所中指导过大都会歌剧院(Metropolitan Opera)的众多巨星，比如女高音桑德拉·拉德万诺夫斯基(Sondra Radvanovsky)和女中音多罗拉‧扎吉克(Dolora Zajick)。
Last summer Mr. Manoli paid Mr. Wyatt’s company, City Soundproofing, $9,000 to soundproof not his apartment but the apartment next door.
去年夏天，马诺利出资9000美元（约合人民币54437元），聘请怀亚特的公司City Soundproofing来做隔音——给邻居家做，而不是自己家。
“It was a paper-thin wall,” Mr. Manoli said, explaining that he had coexisted with his next-door neighbor for years. Then she moved out. He asked the building management to let him soundproof that apartment to avoid losing space in his, because Mr. Wyatt’s proposed solution — two double layers of wallboard with sound-absorbing material in between — would subtract about four inches from a room. The management agreed.
“墙就像纸一样薄，”马诺利说。他解释道，自己与隔壁邻居已经共处多年，后来那位女士搬走了。他要求物业管理者允许他为隔壁公寓做隔音，以免给自家隔音后使他的居住空间变小。这是因为，怀亚特提出的方案是加装两块双层墙板，中间填充吸音材料——这会导致每个房间的墙面内移4英寸（约合10厘米）。物管同意了。
New neighbors have yet to move in, but Mr. Manoli said the other day that they would not hear much. He knows this because he has sneaked into the adjacent apartment after telling singers he was coaching, “Feel like you’re on the stage of the Met, do what you do, I’ll be back.”
新邻居尚未搬进来，不过马诺利在另一次接受采访时说，新邻居不会听到太大动静。他之所以心里有底，是因为有一次他溜进隔壁公寓里考察了一番。进去之前，他对自己那天在指导的歌手说，“你就当自己在大都会歌剧院的舞台上，想怎么唱就怎么唱。我一会儿就回来。”
“It took 85 percent of the sound away,” he said. “You could take a chain saw to a singer in my apartment now, and nobody next door would know.”
“声音被消减了85%，”他说，“现在，你在我家里提着链锯逼近一位歌手都没关系了。隔壁没人会听到。”