The idea came to Jorge Odón as he slept. Somehow, he said, his unconscious made the leap from a YouTube video he had just seen on extracting a lost cork from a wine bottle to the realization that the same parlor trick could save a baby stuck in the birth canal.
豪尔赫·奥东(Jorge Odón)睡觉的时候灵感突然就来了。他说，不知怎么的，之前他的潜意识里，还是YouTube网站上看过的一则视频，教你怎么从葡萄酒瓶里把掉进去的软木塞取出来。忽然间，他意识到这种小把戏同样也可以把卡在产道里的胎儿救出来。
Mr. Odón, 59, an Argentine car mechanic, built his first prototype in his kitchen, using a glass jar for a womb, his daughter’s doll for the trapped baby, and a fabric bag and sleeve sewn by his wife as his lifesaving device.
现年59岁的奥东是一位阿根廷汽车机师，在自家厨房里制成了第一具原型。他用一个玻璃罐当做子宫，女儿的洋娃娃当做卡住的胎儿，再拿编织袋和太太缝制的袖管当做是他的救生装置。
Unlikely as it seems, the idea that took shape on his counter has won the enthusiastic endorsement of the World Health Organization and major donors, and an American medical technology company has just licensed it for production.
虽然看上去并不起眼，但是这个在厨房长桌上形成的主意却获得了世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)和主要捐款机构的热切支持。一家美国的医疗科技公司刚刚获得生产授权。
With the Odón Device, an attendant slips a plastic bag inside a lubricated plastic sleeve around the head, inflates it to grip the head and pulls the bag until the baby emerges.
使用奥东的设备，一位专职护士会将一个塑料袋放进一个环绕胎儿头部的润滑后的塑料袖管里，将塑料袋充气让它抓紧胎儿头部，然后往外拉袋子，直到看到胎儿为止。
Doctors say it has enormous potential to save babies in poor countries, and perhaps to reduce cesarean section births in rich ones.
医生表示，这项发明有巨大潜力，能够在贫穷国家挽救婴儿的生命。就算在富裕国家，该项发明也有可能降低剖腹产的比例。
“This is very exciting,” said Dr. Mario Merialdi, the W.H.O.’s chief coordinator for improving maternal and perinatal health and an early champion of the Odón Device. “This critical moment of life is one in which there’s been very little advancement for years.”
马里奥·马里阿德(Mario Merialdi)博士是世界卫生组织改善孕产和围产期健康处的主要协调员，也是奥东装置的早期支持者。他说，“这十分令人振奋。生命中的这一时刻如此关键，但是很多年来我们在这方面取得的进展却非常有限。”
About 10 percent of the 137 million births worldwide each year have potentially serious complications, Dr. Merialdi said. About 5.6 million babies are stillborn or die quickly, and about 260,000 women die in childbirth. Obstructed labor, which can occur when a baby’s head is too large or an exhausted mother’s contractions stop, is a major factor.
马里阿德博士表示，全世界每年共有1.37亿次分娩，其中约10%可能会出现严重的并发症。约560万胎儿生下来就已经死亡，或者很快死亡，而死于分娩的女性人数大概是26万。当胎儿的头部过大，或者母亲筋疲力尽宫缩停止时，就会发生难产，而这是导致分娩事故的主要因素。
In wealthy countries, fetal distress results in a rush to the operating room. In poor, rural clinics, Dr. Merialdi said, “if the baby doesn’t come out, the woman is on her own.”
在富裕国家，出现胎儿窘迫时，产妇会被迅速送往手术室。但马里阿德博士说，在贫穷国家的乡村诊所，“如果胎儿出不来，产妇就只能靠自己了。”
The current options in those cases are forceps — large, rounded pliers — or suction cups attached to the baby’s scalp. In untrained hands, either can cause hemorrhages, crush the baby’s head or twist its spine.
如果出现这类情况，现在基本上要靠产钳，这是一种巨大的圆头钳子；或者使用紧贴着婴儿头部的吸着杯。如果医生缺乏训练，这两种手法都可能导致大出血，压坏胎儿的头部，或者扭曲胎儿的脊柱。
Although more testing is planned on the Odón Device, doctors said it appeared to be safe for midwives with minimal training to use.
虽然对于奥东的装置，还计划进行更多的测试。但是医生们表示，助产士只要稍加训练就能够安全地使用这一装置。
Along the way, it has won research grants from the United States Agency for International Development and from Grand Challenges Canada. 
与此同时，这项装置已经获得了美国国际开发署(United States Agency for International Development)和加拿大大挑战(Grand Challenges Canada)的研究经费。
“We’ve given out $32 million for 61 different innovations, and this one is the farthest along,” said Dr. Peter A. Singer, the chief executive of Grand Challenges Canada.
彼得·A·辛格(Peter A. Singer)博士是“加拿大大挑战”的首席执行官，他说，“我们已经为61项不同的创新项目拿出了3200万美元（约合1.9亿元人民币），而这是最成熟的项目。”
The device will be manufactured by Becton, Dickinson and Company, or BD, of Franklin Lakes, N.J., which is better known for making syringes.
这种装置将由新泽西州富兰克林湖的美国BD公司（Becton, Dickinson and Company, 缩写BD）生产，这家公司以生产注射器闻名。
“My first reaction, as soon as I saw it, was positive,” said Gary M. Cohen, the company’s executive vice president for global health. It was at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, that Dr. Merialdi asked him to consider taking it on.
该公司主管全球卫生项目的执行副总裁加里·M·科恩(Gary M. Cohen)表示，“我一看到这项装置，第一反应是就是积极的。”在瑞士达沃斯的世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)上，马里阿德博士建议科恩考虑生产这个项目。
“Many inventions get to the prototype stage, but that’s maybe 15 percent of what needs to be done,” Mr. Cohen said. “There’s finalizing the design for manufacture, quality control, the regulatory work and clinical studies. Absent that, they don’t see the light of day.”
科恩表示，“很多发明都会进入试样阶段，但这可能只是全部工序的15%左右。还需要给设计定稿以便生产，进行质量控制，合规性工作和临床研究。如果没有经过这些环节，样品是不能面世的。”
So far, the device has been safety-tested only on 30 Argentine women, all of whom were in hospitals, had given birth before and were in normal labor.
与此同时，这项装置仅在30名阿根廷妇女身上进行了安全性测试，而且所有这些实验对象都已经住在医院，之前都有过分娩经历，而且都是顺产。
“I was glad they asked me, because it was for a good cause,” said Luciana Valle, a kindergarten teacher who was 31 two years ago when her son, Matteo, was one of the first babies extracted with the device. Because Matteo weighed almost nine pounds, “it really helped,” she said in a telephone interview. “His head came out on my second push.”
卢恰娜·巴列(Luciana Valle)是一名幼儿园老师。两年前，在她31岁的时候，她的儿子马泰奥(Matteo)就是采用这种装置分娩的最早的婴儿之一。她说，“我非常高兴他们问我要不要参加安全性测试，因为这是一件好事。”巴列在电话采访中说，因为马泰奥差不多有九磅重（约合4.08公斤），“这项装置确实起到了作用。我第二次用力，他的头就出来了。”
The W.H.O. will now oversee tests on 100 more women in normal labor in China, India and South Africa, and then on 170 women in obstructed labor.
世界卫生组织现在正在中国、印度和南非监督对另外100名顺产妇女的测试，然后再会对170名难产妇女进行测试。
It is too early to know what BD will charge, Mr. Cohen said, but each device should cost less than $50 to make. While the company expects to profit on all sales, it will charge poor countries less.
科恩表示，现在还不知道BD公司会如何定价，但是每套装置的制造成本应该在50美元以下。虽然公司希望能够从所有的销售中都获益，但是这套装置在贫穷国家的定价会低一些。
Dr. Merialdi said he endorsed a modest profit motive because he had seen other lifesaving ideas languish for lack of it. He cited magnesium sulfate injections, which can prevent fatal eclampsia, and corticosteroids, which speed lung development in premature infants.
马里阿德博士表示，他支持公司以微利为目标，因为他曾经见过其他能够挽救生命的好点子，因为没有这样的目标而夭折。他举出了能够避免致命性子癎的硫酸镁针剂的例子；还有能加速早产儿肺部发育的皮质类固醇。
“But first, this problem needed someone like Jorge,” he said. “An obstetrician would have tried to improve the forceps or the vacuum extractor, but obstructed labor needed a mechanic. And 10 years ago, this would not have been possible. Without YouTube, he never would have seen the video.”
他表示，“不过首先，解决这些问题需要找到像豪尔赫这样的人。一个产科医生可能会去改进产钳或者真空吸盘，但是难产问题需要一个机师来解决。要是在十年前，这肯定是无法想象的。如果没有YouTube的话，他根本就看不到那段视频。”