MOLYVOS, Greece — Here’s a rough guide to the modern world: More efficiency, less humanity. Technology is principally at the service of productivity. Acts of irrational grace are not its thing. They have no algorithm.
希腊莫利沃斯——现代社会大致是这么回事：多点效率、少点人性。技术主要为生产率服务。非理性的善举与之格格不入，因为没有那么一种运算程序。
Greece has made me think about everything statistics don’t tell you. No European country has been as battered in recent years. No European country has responded with as much consistent humanity to the refugee crisis.
然而，希腊让我思考一些数字不能说明的问题。没有哪个欧洲国家近年来遭受了如此重创，却也没有哪个国家对难民危机展现出了如此一以贯之的人性。
Greater prosperity equals diminishing generosity. Device distraction equals inability to give of your time. Modernity fosters the transactional relationship over the human relationship. The rules are not absolute, but they are useful indicators.
现代社会是越富裕越吝啬。个人工具对注意力的分散意味着无力付出时间。现代性促使人与人之间形成交易关系。规矩并不一定是死的，但它们是有用的指示。
More than 200,000 refugees, mainly from Syria, have arrived in a Greece on the brink this year, almost half of them coming ashore in the island of Lesbos, which lies just six miles from Turkey. They have entered a country with a quarter of its population unemployed. They have found themselves in a state whose per-capita income has fallen by nearly 23 percent since the crisis began, with a tenuous banking system and unstable politics. Greece could serve as a textbook example of a nation with potential for violence against a massive influx of outsiders.
今年，逾20万难民抵达风雨飘摇中的希腊，其中大多来自叙利亚。近一半难民从距离土耳其仅六英里（约合十公里）的莱斯沃斯岛登陆希腊。他们进入的这个国家，有四分之一的人口失业，自危机爆发以来人均收入下滑了近23%，银行系统不堪一击，政局动荡。希腊本可以成为粗暴对待大规模涌入的外来人口的样板。
In general, the refugees have been well received. There have been clashes, including on Lesbos, but almost none of the miserable bigotry, petty calculation, schoolyard petulance and amnesiac small-mindedness emanating from European Union countries further north, particularly Hungary.
不过，难民大体上受到了善待。冲突确有发生，莱斯沃斯岛也不例外，但希腊几乎没有表现出更北面的欧盟国家——尤其是匈牙利——散发出来的那种可怜的偏执、小家子气的算计、幼稚的任性、健忘的狭隘。
For several hours, I crisscrossed Lesbos with a driver, Michalis Papagrigoriou, who had volunteered to help transport refugees from Molyvos in the north of the island to the port in Mytilene, about 45 miles away. His bus, normally used to ferry pale North European tourists in search of Mediterranean sun, had been leased by the International Rescue Committee (I.R.C.) to help the more than 2,000 refugees arriving in inflatable rafts every day.
跟着司机米哈利斯·帕帕格雷戈里乌(Michalis Papagrigoriou)，我在莱斯沃斯岛上穿梭了几个小时。他志愿帮助运送难民，从岛北面的莫利沃斯送到45英里外的米蒂利尼港口。他驾驶的大巴通常用来接送追逐地中海阳光的那些肤色苍白的欧洲北方游客，如今被国际救援委员会（International Rescue Committee，简称IRC）租来帮助难民。这些难民乘充气阀而来，每天有2000余人。
Papagrigoriou, besieged by calls to take his bus here and there, was in an irrepressible mood. Around each switchback on the hills between Kalloni in the middle of the island and Molyvos in the north, refugees came into view: children, old men, pregnant women trudging through pine woods.
请帕帕格雷戈里乌把车开到这里那里的电话令他应接不暇，但他保持着开朗乐观的情绪。岛中央的卡洛尼和北部的莫利沃斯之间是山区。每次车一转弯，难民便映入眼帘：孩童、老人和孕妇拖着沉重的步伐穿越松树林。
They raised their arms. They pleaded. They lay slumped against backpacks. Discarded water bottles traced their path. Papagrigoriou, with an appointment to pick up a busload in Molyvos, could not help immediately but each group prompted an impassioned soliloquy about injustice and shared humanity. On the way back, although full, he would bend the rules to squeeze in an extra woman and child. He would also accept a plea from his village, Mantamados, to pick up refugees there, although it meant working deep into the night.
他们举起手臂，他们苦苦哀求，他们带着背包倒卧地上。丢弃的水瓶记载了他们行进的路线。帕帕格雷戈里乌要去莫利沃斯接一车人，没法立即帮上忙。但每次看到这样一群人，他便禁不住激动地自言自语起来，抱怨不公，谈谈共同的人性。回去的路上，尽管车上坐满了人，他还是会通融一下，再塞上一两个妇孺。他还会接受自家村子曼塔马多斯发出的请求，到那里去接上难民，尽管这意味着要工作到夜里。
In Molyvos, refugees lined up by the side of the road. Papagrigoriu’s was the second-last bus of the evening. The great golden orb of the sun was already halfway through its riveting plunge below the horizon. I.R.C. officials explained how they try to stop refugees setting off on foot to Mytilene, but some are too impatient to wait.
在莫利沃斯，难民在路边排着队。帕帕格雷戈里乌驾驶的大巴是当天傍晚倒数第二辆车。太阳那辉煌的金色圆盘已然落了一半，景色煞是迷人。IRC的官员解释道，他们试图阻止难民步行前往米蒂利尼，但有些人实在没有耐心等下去。
I got talking on the bus to Taleb Hosein, an Afghan refugee. He’d been on the road for a long time, how long he could not say. The worst was a walk of several days without food from Iran into Turkey. He looked very young. I asked how old he was. He did not know. In Afghanistan, he said, there are often no birth records. “I think I am about 17 or 18,” he said. Where was he headed? “I want a safe place, I don’t care where, but Britain would be my favorite, because I study English.”
在车上，我和阿富汗难民塔利布·侯赛因(Taleb Hosein)攀谈起来。他奔波良久，自己都说不清到底有多长时间。最艰难的一段是徒步从伊朗走到土耳其，耗费多日，没有食物。他看起来年纪轻轻。我问他有多大了。他不知道，回答说阿富汗通常没有出生记录。“我觉得自己十七八，”他说。想要去哪里呢？“我想去个安全的地方，不管是哪里，不过我最喜欢英国，因为学了英语。”
A 26-year-old Syrian dentist from Damascus who had been listening to us told me he had gotten married two weeks ago. His wife was sleeping, her head on his shoulder. “This is our honeymoon,” he said.
来自大马士革的叙利亚牙医在听我们交谈。他说自己26岁，两周前结了婚。他的妻子睡着了，头靠在他的肩上。“这是我们的蜜月，”他说。
Night had fallen. The groups of walking refugees held feeble flashlights. Many had stopped, having decided to sleep by the side of the road. One young man stood in the path of the bus until the last moment. Papagrigoriu, slowly negotiating the switchbacks, talked about how certain situations demand that human beings help one another, other considerations be damned.
夜幕已降临。一群群徒步的难民就着微弱的照明前行。许多人停了下来，决定在路边睡上一觉。一名男青年挡在车道上，直到眼看就要撞上。帕帕格雷戈里乌慢慢地在急转弯的车道上小心驾驶，口中说着，在某些情况下，人类必需互相帮助，让其他想法见鬼去吧。
Exhausted silence enveloped the bus. Hosein and the other Afghans disembarked into a camp surrounded by barbed wire. The Syrian transit camp is less forbidding; Greek authorities quickly hand out a permit to stay for six months. Most refugees want to move north to Germany, where they believe they will find jobs.
车里笼罩着精疲力竭带来的沉默。侯赛因和一些阿富汗人下了车，进了一座围着铁丝网的营地。叙利亚人的中转营则没有那么冷冰冰；希腊当局迅速给他们发放了逗留六个月的许可。多数难民希望北上去德国，相信在那里能找到工作。
They will be lucky if they find Papagrigoriu’s humanity. The world hardens in technology’s vise. The productivity of generosity cannot be measured.
若能遇到帕帕格雷戈里乌这样的人情味，他们便是走运了。在技术的淫威之下，世界变得越来越坚硬。而慷慨待人的生产率是无法衡量的。
I asked Alexis Papahelas, the executive editor of the Greek daily Kathimerini, what Greece could teach the world: “That dignity and decency can be preserved, even through the hardest times.”
我向希腊《每日新闻报》(Kathimerini)的主编亚历克西斯·帕帕赫拉斯(Alexis Papahelas)询问，希腊可以教给全世界什么。“尊严和正派能够留存下来，哪怕是在最艰难的时刻。”