BERLIN — Austria, Slovakia and the Netherlands introduced border controls on Monday, as Germany’s decision over the weekend to set up checks began to ripple across a bloc struggling to deal with the influx of migrants coming to the Continent.
柏林——周一，奥地利、斯洛伐克、荷兰开始实施边境管制。大批涌入的难民令欧洲疲于应对，德国上周末设立检查站的做法开始在欧盟蔓延开来。
In Hungary, the authorities said that a near-record 5,353 migrants had crossed into the country from Serbia before noon on Monday — even as Budapest continued to seal off that border with the construction of a 109-mile fence made with razor wire.
匈牙利当局说，周一中午之前，几乎创纪录的5353名难民从塞尔维亚越境进入该国——尽管匈牙利官方正在用铁丝网建设109英里长的围栏，试图封锁边境。
Around 50 police officers, wearing riot gear and equipped with pepper spray, converged Monday afternoon on the train tracks linking the villages of Roszke, Hungary and Horgos, Serbia, which thousands of migrants had used to cross in recent days. An official in a bright yellow jacket turned away migrants seeking to enter Hungary.
周一下午，大约有50名警察身着防暴装备，携带胡椒喷雾，聚集在连接匈牙利勒斯凯和塞尔维亚霍尔果什的一段铁道线上。最近几天的时间里，数以万计的移民穿越了这条通道。一位身着亮黄色马甲的官员赶走了希望进入匈牙利的难民。
Starting Tuesday, Hungary will classify unauthorized entry into the country as a criminal offense, punishable by up to three years in prison. In response, Serbia said it would set up reception centers in the north of the country and pleaded for the European Union, of which it is not a member, to take action.
从周二开始，匈牙利将未经许可进入该国的行为列为刑事犯罪，可处以最高三年的监禁。对此，塞尔维亚表示将在该国北部设立接待中心，并恳求欧盟采取行动。塞尔维亚不是欧盟成员国。
Meanwhile, Dutch authorities said that they would conduct spot checks at their country’s border with Germany. And Slovakia announced temporary controls, and the addition of 220 officers, along its borders with Hungary and Austria.
与此同时，荷兰当局表示将在荷德边境上进行抽查。斯洛伐克也宣布进行临时管制，并在该国与匈牙利和奥地利的边境上增派了220名警员。
While Berlin said its new controls, along the German-Austrian border, were only a temporary, emergency measure, the restrictions, a response to the strain on local communities, signaled that Chancellor Angela Merkel’s welcoming stance toward the migrants was encountering domestic resistance.
德国官方表示，在德奥边境采取的最新举措只是一个临时的紧急管制，是为了应对当地社区的压力。这暗示德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)对难民的欢迎姿态，在国内遭受了阻力。
Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel told members of his center-left Social Democratic Party, which governs with Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union, that Germany could face the arrival of even more migrants this year than the government had projected. “There are many indications that in this year we will not see 800,000 refugees, as predicted, but a million,” he said in a letter to his party.
德国副总理西格玛尔·加布里尔(Sigmar Gabriel)属于中左翼的社会民主党(Social Democratic Party)，该党与默克尔的基督教民主联盟(Christian Democratic Union)组成了联合政府。加布里尔对本党成员说，今年抵达德国的难民可能会超出政府此前的预计。“此前我们预测今年将会有80万难民，但有很多迹象表明，人数会达到100万，”他在致本党成员的一封信中说。
“Germany is strong and can handle a lot,” Mr. Gabriel wrote. “Nevertheless, in the past few days we have experienced how, despite our best efforts, our abilities have reached their limits.”
“德国很强大，可以接纳很多人，”加布里尔写道。“尽管如此，虽然我们在过去几天里尽了最大努力，但是也经历了能力达到极限的状况。”
Horst Seehofer, the premier of Bavaria, a deeply conservative state in the south, has criticized Ms. Merkel for her open-door policy. More than 25,000 migrants arrived in Bavaria over the weekend.
在德国南部极为保守的巴伐利亚州，周末有2.5万名移民抵达那里。该州州长霍斯特·泽霍费尔(Horst Seehofer)对默克尔的开放政策提出了批评。
“There is no order, there is no system, and in a country governed by the rule of law, that is a cause for concern,” Mr. Seehofer told reporters on Sunday. He said that officials were straining to process and house thousands of newcomers, and that some of them were economic migrants, not people fleeing persecution.
“没有秩序，不成系统，在一个法治国家，这样的现象令人担忧，”泽霍费尔上周日告诉记者。他说，官员们费尽心力给新来的数万人办手续、找住处，但他们中有一些是经济移民，而不是躲避迫害的难民。
“We need better controls in general, because we have determined that in recent days, many of those on the move are really not refugees,” Joachim Herrmann, the Bavarian interior minister, told a local television station. Officials in Eastern and Central Europe, including Hungary, have made similar arguments.
巴伐利亚州内政部长乔希姆·赫尔曼(Joachim Herrmann)对当地一家电视台表示，“总之，我们需要更好地管控，因为我们最近几天断定，很多来这里的人不是真正的难民。”包括匈牙利在内的东欧及中欧国家的官员，也提出了类似的观点。
It was not immediately clear how long the German measures would remain in effect, but Mr. Herrmann estimated that they would last “at least a week.”
目前尚不清楚德国的举措会持续多长时间，但赫尔曼估计，“至少会持续一周。”
The extraordinary restrictions to the European Union’s border-free Schengen zone by Germany — one of the most ardent proponents of greater integration — signified a departure for Ms. Merkel, who had said just last week that there was “no upper limit” on the number of refugees her country could take in.
作为最强烈支持欧洲融合的国家之一，德国对欧盟内部免除边界检查的申根区采取了不同寻常的管控举措。这显示默克尔改变了主意，她上周还表示，德国可以接受的难民人数“没有上限”。
The Schengen Agreement, which guarantees passport-free movement within much of continental Europe, has been a cornerstone of European unity, along with the euro and a single market. Countries in the Schengen zone are allowed, however, to temporarily reinstate controls at their borders for security reasons.
申根协议确保人们无需护照就可以在欧洲大陆大部分地区流动。申根协议、欧元及单一市场是欧洲一体化的基石。但出于安全原因，申根区的国家可以临时恢复对边境的管控。
Such controls have been set up seven times since 2013, when the rules were clarified for participating countries — but the first time such controls have been reinstated because of pressures from migration.
自2013年向成员国阐明相关规定以来，此类管控举措已经实施了七次，但这是第一次因为移民压力而恢复控制。
Steffen Seibert, a spokesman for Ms. Merkel, said the new measures were “not a closing of the border, or a suspension of the right to asylum,” but rather an attempt to instill greater order on the chaos of the arrival and application process.
默克尔的发言人斯特芬·塞贝特(Steffen Seibert)表示，新举措“并不是关闭边境或暂时取消避难的权利”，而是为了让混乱的入境和申请过程更加有序。
“It also serves as a clear signal to our European partners that Germany, while prepared to take on a large share of responsibilities, cannot be solely responsible for taking in all refugees,” he said.
他表示，“这也向欧洲国家发出一个清晰的信号，德国准备承担很大一部分责任，但不能完全由德国负责接收所有难民。”
Nonetheless, Germany’s decision appeared to have edged neighboring Austria to enact its own restrictions.
尽管如此，德国的决定似乎也在推动邻国奥地利实施自己的限制举措。
“If Germany carries out border controls, Austria must put strengthened border controls in place,” said Chancellor Werner Faymann of Austria, who is scheduled to meet with Ms. Merkel on Tuesday. (He added, however, that no asylum seekers had been turned back to Austria from the German border.)
“如果德国实施边境管控举措，奥地利必须加强边境控制，”奥地利总理维尔纳·法伊曼(Werner Faymann)说。法伊曼将于周二与默克尔会面。（但他还补充说，寻求避难的人并没有被从德国边境送回奥地利。）