ROSZKE, Hungary — Fraying tensions snapped along Hungary’s southern border on Monday as thousands more migrants staggered into the country from Serbia while European leaders scrambled to figure out what to do with them and how to stanch the flow.
匈牙利勒斯凯——周一，又有数千名移民从塞尔维亚踉踉跄跄地涌入匈牙利南部，边境地带的紧张局势几近失控。欧洲领导人正在忙乱地决定应该做些什么，以及如何遏制人潮的流入。
In a trash-strewn camp a few hundred yards north of the border, more than 1,000 people waited for promised buses to take them to a nearby relocation center — the next stop, they hoped, on their long journey to Western Europe from Syria, Afghanistan and other nations.
在距离边境以北几百米之外一处满是垃圾的营地里，有超过1000人在等待承诺的巴士将他们送到附近的安置中心。他们盼望着，这将是从叙利亚、阿富汗和其他国家前往西欧的漫长旅程中的下一站。
About 200 angry people broke free, made their way to the country’s main north-south highway and began walking toward Budapest, forcing the authorities to close the artery.
约有200人愤怒地从营地里逃脱，走上了该国南北向的主干道，开始步行前往布达佩斯，致使当局被迫关闭了这条道路。
Some had been waiting in Roszke for over two days, with temperatures falling into the 40s overnight. Still more arrived, in bedraggled clusters of 10 or 20, along the railroad tracks that sliced a gap in the razor-wire fence Hungary is building along the 108-mile border with Serbia.
一些人已经在勒斯凯等待了超过两天，那里夜间的气温已经下降到了5摄氏度左右。还有更多人正在前来，大约10到20人狼狈地凑在一起，沿着铁轨行走。匈牙利正在该国与塞尔维亚之间长达108英里（约合174公里）的边境修建铁丝网，铁轨在铁丝网之间开了一道口子。
“At night, it is so cold,” said Mahmoud Alatrash, 29. “I think we will never leave. I think we will die here.”
“晚上非常冷，”29岁的马赫穆德·阿特拉什(Mahmoud Alatrash)说。“我想我们永远没办法离开，我觉得我们会死在这里。”
With pressure building on European countries to accept more of the migrants — and many countries, notably Hungary, resisting that pressure — President François Hollande of France announced on Monday that his country would take in 24,000 asylum seekers over two years.
欧洲各国受到了越来越大的压力，要接收更多移民，而许多国家，尤其是匈牙利则在抵抗这种压力。法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)周一宣布，法国将在未来两年里接收2.4万名寻求避难者。
In Britain, Prime Minister David Cameron said his country would accept 20,000 refugees from Syria. In Germany, which has been accepting by far the largest number of arrivals, Chancellor Angela Merkel vowed to set aside $6.7 billion to deal with the crisis.
英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)表示，英国将接收2万名叙利亚难民。德国接收了数量最多的人员，远超其他国家。德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)宣称，要拨款67亿美元（约430亿元人民币）应对危机。
The numbers those European nations have agreed to accept are much smaller than the numbers of those who have entered the Continent, and who continue to arrive. And many countries, especially in Eastern Europe, are balking at accepting more than a token number.
欧洲国家同意接收的人数，远远低于已经进入欧洲大陆及正在继续赶来的人数。而且许多国家，尤其是东欧国家，愿意接收的人数仅仅具有象征意义。
Mr. Hollande said a plan was expected to be presented on Wednesday by the European Commission, the union’s executive arm, that would redistribute 120,000 people across the 28-nation bloc over the next two years.
奥朗德称，欧洲联盟的行政机构欧盟委员会(European Commission)预计将于周三提交一份方案，在未来两年里向这个集团的28个成员国分配12万人。
“It is the duty of France, where the right to asylum is entirely part of its soul, of its flesh,” Mr. Hollande said.
“这是法国的义务。在这里，避难权完全是其灵魂的一部分，是其血肉的一部分，”奥朗德说。
The European Union, he said, needed to create “hot spot” reception centers at those borders under the greatest onslaught — in Greece, Italy and Hungary — to register new arrivals and turn back those who do not meet the requirements for asylum.
他说，欧盟需要在受冲击最严重的边境地带建立“热点”接待中心，如在希腊、意大利和匈牙利，登记新抵达的人员，并将不符合避难要求的人遣返。
Mr. Cameron said Monday that Britain would accept up to 20,000 Syrian refugees, but they would most likely be limited to those who apply for asylum from camps in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. The British government is wary of giving migrants any incentive to make the dangerous journey into Europe, officials said, and do not wish to favor more well-to-do refugees who can afford the trip.
卡梅伦周一表示，英国将接收最多2万名叙利亚难民，不过这些名额很可能局限于在约旦、黎巴嫩和土耳其的难民营递交避难申请的人员。官员透露，英国政府很担心会鼓励移民踏上危险的旅程走向欧洲，而且也不希望偏袒那些境况较好，付得起旅费的难民。
Challenged by Harriet Harman, acting leader of the opposition Labour Party, to say how many would be admitted this year, officials declined to give a specific target.
反对党工党(Labour Party)代理党魁哈里特·哈尔曼(Harriet Harman)质问，今年会接收多少人。面对这个问题，政府官员拒绝给出具体的目标。
Several other British lawmakers criticized the announcement, with some calling for the number to be increased. “The offer of 20,000 refugees over five years amounts to just 12 refugees a day, which falls pitifully short of what is needed and of what people in this country deserve and expect,” said Caroline Lucas, a lawmaker for the Green Party.
其他数名英国议员也对政府宣布的决定提出了批评，一些议员呼吁提高人数。“五年接收2万名难民的话，一天才12名。与所需的力度相比，与这个国家的民众应得和期待的情况相比，这个数字都少得可怜，”绿党(Green Party)议员卡洛琳·卢卡斯(Caroline Lucas)表示。
In Germany, Ms. Merkel said that “what we are experiencing now is something that will occupy and change our country in coming years.”
在德国，默克尔表示“我们现在正在经历的事件，未来数年里在我国会持续受到关注，也会给我国带来转变”。
“We want that the change is positive, and we believe we can accomplish that,” she added.
“我们希望这个改变是正面的，我们相信我们能做到，”她接着说。
Hungary, which has taken a much harder line than most European nations, continued to reject demands that all countries accept quotas.
立场远比大多数欧洲国家更强硬的匈牙利，仍不愿接受所有国家都应接收一定配额的难民的要求。
Prime Minister Viktor Orban has repeatedly said that Hungary has the right to protect its Christian traditions by refusing to accept large numbers of Muslims, and that many of the arrivals making their way to Germany and other prosperous nations do not deserve asylum.
匈牙利总理欧尔班·维克托(Viktor Orban)反复表示，匈牙利为了保护该国的基督教传统，有权拒不接收大量穆斯林。而且很多已经到达匈牙利的人，是在向德国及其他更繁荣的国家前进，他们不配得到庇护。
“We have to face the reality that these people do not simply want refugee status,” he told a gathering of diplomats on Monday. “They are really after the German way of life.”
“我们必须面对现实，这些人不只是想取得难民地位，”他周一在一场与外交官的会晤中表示，“他们真正想要的是德国的生活方式。”
Yet strains were beginning to show in the Hungarian government. On Monday, Csaba Hende, Hungary’s defense minister, submitted his resignation after a national security meeting, and Mr. Orban accepted it, the state news agency reported.
匈牙利政府内部因此产生的紧张也逐渐显现出来。周一，国防部长亨德·乔鲍(Csaba Hende)在一次国家安全会议后递交辞呈。该国官方通讯社报道，欧尔班接受了他的辞呈。
Mr. Hende had been responsible, along with the minister of the interior, for construction of the border fence. Mr. Orban had asked that it be completed by the end of August, but only a first stage, a line of razor wire along the ground, had been completed by then, with the bulk of the 13-foot barrier still being built. Those arriving Monday in Roszke could listen, as they walked along the rail tracks through the gap in the fence, to the clang of a pile driver sinking metal poles into the loamy ground just a few hundred yards away.
亨德与内政部长负责边界围栏的建造事宜。 欧尔班要求在8月底前建好围栏，但到8月底的时候，只完成了第一阶段的工作——沿着地面拉起了一条铁丝网，13英尺（约4米）高的围栏的大部分仍正在建造当中。周一抵达勒斯凯的难民沿着铁轨行走，穿过围栏缺口时，可以听到几百米外，打桩机将金属杆压入壤土地面的声音。
This year alone, more than 150,000 migrants have requested asylum in Hungary. The latest figures from the government show that the largest number, 53,467, came from Syria, with 41,094 from Afghanistan, 24,554 from Kosovo and the rest from Iraq, Pakistan, Eritrea and other troubled nations.
仅在今年，匈牙利就有逾15万名移民请求避难。政府提供的最新数据显示，其中来自叙利亚的移民最多，达到53467人，阿富汗有41094名，科索沃有24554名，剩下的来自伊拉克、巴基斯坦、厄立特里亚及其他陷入困境的国家。
The opening of a new relocation camp in Roszke on Sunday — not far from the muddy field where the latest arrivals were being held — is only the first step in a coming crackdown on illegal migration, Mr. Orban promised.
匈牙利周日在勒斯凯开设了新的安置营地，距离新抵达人员所在地不远，他们目前被扣留在一片泥泞的田野里。欧尔班承诺，将会打击非法移民，这只是其中的第一步。
A series of revisions to Hungary’s refugee laws, set to take effect Sept. 15, will give the authorities greater powers to contain the flow and punish those who contribute to it.
匈牙利难民法的一系列修订将于9月15日起生效，使得当局拥有更大权力，控制难民的涌入，并惩治帮助难民入境的人员。
One package of revisions, passed by the Hungarian Parliament on Friday, allows for the building of closed camps along the border to rule quickly on whether new arrivals qualify for refugee status — a plan that seemed similar to Mr. Hollande’s call for “hot spot” centers.
匈牙利议会周五通过的修订允许该国在边境沿线建造封闭的营地，以迅速判定新抵达人员是否有资格获得难民身份，该计划似乎与奥朗德呼吁建造“热点”接待中心的提议类似。
More revisions, expected to be passed this week, would give the police much greater authority, including the right to enter private homes if they suspect migrants are hiding there, and would authorize the Hungarian military to help protect the border.
议会将在本周通过更多修订条文，向警方赋予更大权力，如怀疑移民隐藏在某个私人住所时，有权进入房屋；修订的条文还准许匈牙利军队帮助保护边境。
“It is Hungary’s primary interest to protect its border,” Mr. Orban said Monday. “For this, we need a physical point, a physical line, a construction, which can be guarded by the army, the police and any other official sent to the border.”
“保护边境是匈牙利的重点任务，”欧尔班周一表示。“为此，我们需要一个实体的点，实体的界线和建筑，军队、警察和其他官员将被派往边境保障这条界线。”
Hungary was not the only scene of tension on Monday. In Spain, a day after the police clashed with migrants at a detention center in the eastern city of Valencia, the regional government called on the authorities to investigate the episode, including reports that the police had fired rubber bullets to regain control.
周一，匈牙利不是唯一出现紧张气氛的地方。就在西班牙警方与移民在东部城市巴伦西亚的一个拘留中心发生冲突的一天之后，地区政府呼吁当局调查该事件，包括警方为夺回控制权而发射橡皮子弹的报道。
In Denmark, the police stopped a Copenhagen-bound train carrying about 100 migrants. Passengers with valid passports and visas were shifted to another train while the migrants were held.
在丹麦，警方截停了一列开往哥本哈根的火车，该火车运载了大约100名移民。持有有效护照和签证的乘客被转移到另一列火车，而这些移民则被扣留。
The move was in reaction to an influx of migrants that came from Hungary over the weekend, a police official said. The first few dozen agreed to board buses to reception centers where they were to be fed and given beds and access to showers while they went through registration.
一名警察表示，这是对上周末移民从匈牙利涌入丹麦做出的回应。头几十名移民同意乘坐大巴前往接待中心，他们在那里进行注册的同时，可以获得食品和床位，还可以洗澡。
“During registration, you will be interviewed and you will be asked your desires — if you want to seek asylum or not,” an officer told them.
一名官员告诉他们，“在注册时，会问你们一些问题，比如你们的意愿，包括是否想要寻求避难。”
The group — which was on its way to Norway and Sweden — included Syrians, Afghans, Iraqis and Iranians who had made their way over the weekend from Budapest’s Keleti train station.
赶往挪威和瑞典的人群中，包括叙利亚人、阿富汗人、伊拉克人和伊朗人，他们上周末从布达佩斯东站出发来到这里。
“I don’t want to stay here,” said Nasser Taha, 21, from Tripoli, Libya. “I have no language, no work, no people.”
“我不想待在这儿，”21岁的纳赛尔·塔哈(Nasser Taha)说。“我不会语言、没有工作、没有认识的人。”塔哈来自利比亚的黎波里。
At the camp near Roszke, migrants waited Monday for bus rides to the nearby processing center where they would be registered and then sent north. Angry groups, weary of the delays, marched on the line of police officers blocking their exit, chanting “Freedom! Freedom!” They were repeatedly pushed back.
周一，在勒斯凯附近的营地，移民等待乘坐大巴前往附近的处理中心进行注册，然后被送往北部地区。厌烦拖延的愤怒人群向警察为阻拦他们而组成的人墙行进，高喊着“自由！自由！”他们不断被推回去。
Taha Shaben, 28, who said he fled Syria when his family’s textile factory was bombed, scowled at those trying to muscle their way through.
28岁的塔哈·沙本(Taha Shaben)表示，他家的纺织厂被炸毁，于是逃离了叙利亚。沙本怒视着那些试图用力推挤的人。
“I am Syrian, you know,” he said. “A real Syrian. Here, we have Pakistanis, Afghans, Iraqis, and they all throw away their papers and claim to be Syrian.”
“我是叙利亚人，你知道，”他说。“真正的叙利亚人。这里有巴基斯坦人、阿富汗人、伊拉克人，他们都扔掉了自己的证件，声称自己是叙利亚人。”
Being from Syria is the surest path to refugee status. “Oh yes,” he said. “Everyone is a Syrian now. It is a big problem.”
来自叙利亚是获得难民身份的最可靠途径。“是的，”他说。“现在大家都成叙利亚人了，这是一个大问题。”
Five hundred yards down the railroad tracks, at the gap in the fence, a few dozen new arrivals rested before continuing on to the distant line of police officers and television crews.
在铁轨沿线大约500米处的围栏缺口处，几十名新抵达的人员正在休息，之后他们将行进至远处，警察和电视台工作人员组成的人墙。