The world is moved by Team Refugees at the Olympics in Rio. They are greeted with a standing ovation at the opening ceremony. Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, not a man given to extravagant displays of emotion, is all smiles.
这个世界被里约奥运会上的难民代表团感动了。他们在开幕式上博得全场起立喝彩。连联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)这个不太会过多流露情绪的人，也笑容满面。
President Obama tweets support for these 10 athletes who “prove that you can succeed no matter where you’re from.” Samantha Power, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, posts a video on Facebook in which she speaks of the world’s 65 million displaced people — the largest number since World War II — and says they “are dreaming bigger because you’re doing what you’re doing.”
美国总统奥巴马发推文支持这10名运动员，称他们“证明了不管你来自哪里，都可以获得成功。”美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)在Facebook上发布了一段视频，在其中谈到了全球6500万难民——自“二战”以来数量最多——称他们“更敢于梦想，因为在做自己想做的事”。
Who could fail to be moved? These are brave people. They have fled anguish in search not of a better life, but of life itself. In general, you do not choose to become a refugee because you have a choice, but because you have no choice. Like Yusra Mardini, the 18-year-old Syrian refugee from a Damascus suburb, who left a country that now exists only in name, and reached Germany only after the small boat bringing her from Turkey to Greece started taking on water in heavy seas. She and her sister Sarah dived into the water and for more than three hours pushed until it reached the island of Lesbos.
谁不会被感动？这些是勇敢的人。他们逃离痛苦之地，不是为了追求更好的生活，而是为了生活下去。一般而言，你不是因为有得选而选择成为一名难民，而是因为别无选择。就像来自大马士革郊区的叙利亚难民、18岁的尤丝拉·马尔迪尼(Yusra Mardini)，她逃离的国家如今已经名存实亡，在抵达德国之前，她乘坐的从土耳其前往希腊的小船在波涛汹涌的大海上灌入了海水。她和姐姐萨拉跳入大海推了三个多小时，才令它抵达来兹波斯岛。
In Rio, Mardini won her heat of the 100-meter butterfly, but did not advance due to her inferior time. Still, hers is a remarkable achievement.
在里约，马尔迪尼在100米蝶泳预赛中获得小组赛胜利，但她的成绩不足以晋级。不过，那依然是一项了不起的成就。
Yes, the world is moved by Team Refugees. Yet, it is unmoved by refugees.
是的，这个世界被难民代表团感动了。然而，却对难民无动于衷。
They die at sea. They die sealed in the back of a truck. They die anonymous deaths. Fences are erected, walls mooted. Posters decry them. They represent danger and threaten disruption. They are freeloaders. They are left in festering limbo on remote Pacific islands. There is talk of a threat to “European civilization” — read Christian Europe. There is talk of making the United States great again — read making the United States white again.
他们葬身大海。他们死在密封的卡车车厢里。他们以无人知晓的方式逝去。围栏立起来，建围墙的提议被提出。谴责他们的海报张贴出来。他们代表着危险，会带来混乱。他们是利用别人的慷慨占便宜的人。他们被滞留在遥远的太平洋岛屿上，日渐孤立无援。有人说难民威胁“欧洲文明”——其实说的是基督教的欧洲。有人说要让美国再次变得伟大——其实是让美国重新变成白人的天下。
Rightist political parties thrive by scapegoating them. Nobody wants refugees. They could be terrorists or rapists. They sit in reception centers. The United States pledged to take in at least 10,000 Syrian refugees in the current fiscal year. In the previous four years, it had admitted about 1,900. This is a pittance. About 4.8 million Syrians have fled their country since the war began.
通过让难民当替罪羊，右翼分子的政党壮大起来。没人愿意接收难民。他们可能是恐怖分子或强奸犯。他们坐在接待中心里。美国曾承诺在目前这个财年接收至少1万叙利亚难民。之前四年里，该国只接收了大约1900人。这真是杯水车薪。战争开始后，有大约480万叙利亚人逃离了自己的祖国。
One Western country, Germany, has shown political courage commensurate with the challenge and thrown open its doors. Having plumbed the depths of depravity, it knows a moral imperative when it sees one.
有一个西方国家显示出了与这项挑战相称的政治勇气，敞开了自己的大门，那就是德国。因为曾经坠入堕落的深渊，这个国家在紧急关头知道必须去做什么才是道德的。
The world loves Team Refugees — the two swimmers from Syria, the two judokas originally from the Democratic Republic of Congo, the marathoner from Ethiopia, the five runners from South Sudan. It admires Rami Anis, a Syrian swimmer now living in Belgium. His hometown is Aleppo, cravenly abandoned by the West to bombardment by Russian forces. Russia strolled into Syria when it realized, after several years of war, that the United States would not lift a finger.
这个世界喜爱难民代表团——两名来自叙利亚的游泳运动员、两名出身于刚果民主共和国的柔道运动员、一名来自埃塞俄比亚的马拉松运动员、五名来自南苏丹的赛跑运动员。它赞赏现居比利时的叙利亚游泳运动员拉米·阿尼斯(Rami Anis)。他的家乡是阿勒颇，一个因俄罗斯的轰炸而被西方懦弱地放弃的地方。当俄罗斯在战争进行几年后意识到美国不会采取行动的时候，它便进入了叙利亚。
Yes, let’s cheer the refugee team in Rio, the first of its kind, but not with empty words, and not to assuage our Syrian consciences. They walk now under an Olympic flag. They want the flag of a homeland. Thomas Bach, the president of the International Olympic Committee, said: “We want to send a message of hope for all refugees in our world.” But after the fanfare, will anyone remember?
没错，我们应该为身在里约的世界首个奥运会难民代表团欢呼，但不要用空话，也不是为了减轻我们对叙利亚人的愧疚之心。他们现在走在奥林匹克旗帜下。他们想要的是一面国旗。国际奥委会主席托马斯·巴赫(Thomas Bach)说：“我们想给全世界的难民传达一种希望的讯息。”但在喧嚣的盛会过后，有谁会记得？
The world is being pulled in two directions at once. The force of globalization, of nomadic humanity, of borderless cyberspace has engendered an equally strong counter-force of nationalism, nativist politics and anti-immigrant bigotry. The two trends are poised in a tense equilibrium.
世界正在同时被扯向两个方向。全球化、四处游荡的人类和无国界的网络世界的力量，已经招来同样强大的反作用力——民族主义、本土政治和反移民偏执倾向。这两种趋势形成了紧张的均势。
I lived in Brazil for several years. It is a generous country. Perhaps no other nation has such a mestizo culture, such ingrained habits of mingling. It feels right that this outreach to Team Refugees should have happened in Rio, a city of miscegenation and openness.
我在巴西生活了好几年。那是个慷慨的国家。或许没有哪个国家能有这样混杂的文化，有那么根深蒂固的混杂交往的习惯。额外设立难民代表团的做法发生里约这样一个种族混合与开放的社会，感觉很对。
The glorification of Team Refugees and the vilification of refugees coexist. How can they? It’s the old principle: Not in my backyard. “We are getting better and we are getting worse at the same time,” Paul Auster, the novelist, told me. “And at the same speed.”
对难民代表团的赞美和对难民的诋毁同时存在。怎么会这样？皆因那条古老的原则：事不关己。“我们在变得更好，同时也在变得更糟，”小说家保罗·奥斯特(Paul Auster)告诉我。“而且是以同样的速度。”
I am reminded of the words of my friend Fritz Stern, the distinguished historian who died this year. “I was born into a world on the cusp of avoidable disaster.” He continued, “The fragility of freedom is the simplest and deepest lesson of my life and work.”
我想起了我的朋友、今年去世的著名历史学家弗里茨·施特恩(Fritz Stern)说过的话，“我出生在一个本该可以避免的灾难即将到来的世界。”他还说过，“自由的脆弱是我在生活和工作中学到的最简单，同时也是最深刻的教训。”
Freedom cannot be built on exclusion and hatred. It is a universal human right. Brazil and the International Olympic Committee have given the world a glimpse of the humanity and aspirations of each refugee. Perhaps, after all, we are getting better faster than we are getting worse, and barriers will continue to fall — but not through words alone.
自由不能建立在排外与仇恨之上。它是一种普世人权。巴西和国际奥委会让世界得以一窥难民的人性与志向。或许，我们变好的速度终究是比变坏的速度更快，障碍将会不断倒下——但仅仅只有话语是不够的。