GELUGOR, Malaysia — The more than 3,000 migrants from Bangladesh and Myanmar who recently landed in Indonesia and Malaysia ended weeks of a nightmare at sea only to fall into an administrative limbo that could last years, even decades.
马来西亚牛汝莪——前不久，3000多名来自孟加拉国和缅甸的移民抵达印度尼西亚和马来西亚。他们结束了长达数周的海上噩梦，不料却又陷入了行政上的困境，这一处境可能会持续数年乃至数十年。
In a potential breakthrough to a crisis across Southeast Asia, Malaysia and Indonesia agreed last week to shelter the migrants, and thousands more who may still be at sea, on the condition that they be returned home or resettled in third countries within a year.
上周，马来西亚和印度尼西亚同意为这一批移民，以及可能仍在海上漂流的另外数千名移民提供庇护所，条件是必须在一年之内将他们遣返回国或是安置到第三国。这在解决一场影响整个东南亚的危机的过程中，可能是一个突破。
If the past is any guide, that goal may be hard to attain.
但如果参考过去的经验，这个目标可能难以实现。
Even for those who qualify as refugees deserving asylum, few countries seem willing to accept them, there is already a tremendous backlog of applicants seeking resettlement, and the agencies that deal with them are overwhelmed.
即便是符合难民庇护条件的人，似乎也鲜有国家愿意接收。重新安置的申请已经出现了大量积压，处理难民事务的机构已经应接不暇。
“Even if we get the U.N. refugee status, we still don’t know how long we must wait before we can be resettled,” said Hasinah Ezahar, 28, who survived illness, hunger and threats from the smugglers she paid for the three-week sea journey with three of her children from western Myanmar. “Until then, our lives are just waiting.”
“就算获得了联合国难民地位，我们也还是不知道要等多久，才能得到重新安置，”28岁的哈西娜·埃扎哈尔(Hasinah Ezahar)说。“在那之前，我们的生活就是等待。”带着三个孩子的她来自缅甸西部，给蛇头交了钱才得以踏上那段历时三周的海上旅途，途中经历了疾病、饥饿和蛇头的威胁。
Her family was part of a wave of migrants from Bangladesh and Myanmar who took to the seas seeking to escape poverty and, in the case of ethnic Rohingya like Ms. Hasinah, religious persecution.
埃扎哈尔一家是来自孟加拉国和缅甸的移民潮中的一部分。他们通过水路逃亡，希望脱离贫困，以及像埃扎哈尔这样的罗辛亚族所受的宗教迫害。
But at least 200,000 Rohingya migrants are already in Bangladesh, and only 32,600 of them have been granted protection as refugees fleeing persecution. Far fewer, perhaps only several hundred, have been resettled from those camps over the past decade and allowed to begin new lives in other countries.
但至少有20万名罗辛亚移民已经进入孟加拉国，其中仅有3.26万人被认定为逃避迫害的难民，得到了保护。过去10年里，离开难民营并得到重新安置，获准在其他国家开始新生活的人更是少得多，或许只有几百人。
In Malaysia, those determined to be refugees and therefore eligible for resettlement, a process than could itself take years, would be joining more than 45,000 Rohingya who are already classified as refugees and are waiting to be taken in by another country. They receive no government aid while they wait, nor can they legally take jobs to support themselves.
重新安置这个过程本身可能就需要数年时间。在马来西亚，一些人已经被认定为难民，因此符合重新安置的条件。但马来西亚已经有超过4.5万名罗辛亚人被归为难民，仍在等其他国家接收。在等待期间，他们得不到政府的援助，也不能合法地工作维生。
About 1,000 Rohingya refugees were resettled in the United States in the last year.
去年，约有1000名罗辛亚难民被安置在美国。
“It’s a bit of a dirty little secret, but that population going to the U.S. is largely people in Malaysia who have been awaiting resettlement for 10 to 15 years,” said Amy Smith, an executive director of Fortify Rights, a human rights group focusing on Southeast Asia.
“这算是一个不可告人的小秘密：安置到美国的主要是身在马来西亚的移民，他们等了10到15年才得到安置，”巩固人权(Fortify Rights)组织执行理事艾米·史密斯(Amy Smith)说。该人权组织主要关注东南亚地区。
While the refugees wait, they cannot send their children to government-accredited schools and are suspended in a social and legal limbo that local charities and off-the-books jobs can only partly relieve.
这些难民在等待安置期间，无法将孩子送到政府认可的学校读书，在社会和法律上也处于进退维谷的境地，当地慈善机构及黑市工作只能在一定程度上缓解压力。
“It’s very frustrating for us,” said Anwar Ahmad, a Rohingya who has lived in Malaysia for 18 years and makes a living in the informal labor market. “We’re grateful that we can stay here, and grateful for the help we receive, but without a stronger official status, I have no future here in Malaysia.”
“这让我们很沮丧，”在马来西亚生活了18年的罗辛亚人安瓦尔·艾哈迈德(Anwar Ahmad)说。“我们很感激能够留在这儿，感激大家给予的帮助，但如果得不到更牢靠的正式身份，我在马来西亚没有未来。”艾哈迈德通过在非正规的劳动力市场工作维持生计。
Even the first step in that process, winning recognition as refugees through the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, has become forbiddingly slow, said Rohingya migrants, human rights advocates and lawyers.
罗辛亚移民、人权倡导人士和律师表示，就连获取正式身份的第一步——获得联合国难民事务高级专员公署(Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees)的难民认可——进展都慢得让人望而却步。
“I think the U.N.H.C.R. is also a bit overwhelmed with the numbers, especially so many who have been here for many, many years have not been resettled yet,” said Kamarulzaman Askandar, a professor at the University of Malaysia Sabah, who has studied the conditions of Rohingya in Malaysia. “The numbers keep increasing and increasing. Many of the newcomers, especially, are not being registered even after a few months of coming over here.”
“我觉得人数太多，联合国难民署有点不堪重负，特别是那么多在这里待了很多年的人尚未得到安置，”马来西亚沙巴大学(University of Malaysia Sabah)教授卡玛鲁扎曼·阿坎达(Kamarulzaman Askandar)说。“人数持续增加。特别是很多新移民在来到这里几个月后，都还没有得到登记。”阿坎达主要研究马来西亚境内罗辛亚人的状况。
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina of Bangladesh on Sunday called the migrants “mentally sick” people who harmed the country’s image and said they would be punished along with their traffickers, the official Bangladesh Sangbad Sangstha news agency reported.
据官方的孟加拉国通讯社(Bangladesh Sangbad Sangstha)报道，孟加拉国总理谢赫·哈西娜(Sheikh Hasina)称这些移民有“精神问题”，损坏了该国形象，并称他们和蛇头都会遭到惩罚。
The Rohingya, a stateless Muslim people who have long faced discrimination and been deprived of basic rights in Myanmar, are likely to meet the criteria for refugee status under international law, namely having “a well-founded fear” of persecution for reasons of race, religion or nationality in their home country.
罗辛亚人——无国籍的穆斯林族群——在缅甸长期遭到歧视，并且被剥夺了基本人权。按照国际法的规定，他们可能会达到获得难民身份的标准，即出于种族、宗教或国籍原因，在自己国家有遭受迫害的“合理恐惧”。
They would be entitled to be resettled in third countries, and the United States said last week that it would take a leading role in any multicountry resettlement effort led by the United Nations refugee agency.
他们将有权在第三国安定下来，美国上周还表示将在联合国难民署领导的所有多国安置工作中起带头作用。
Such an effort, however, has yet to materialize.
不过尚未看到有实际行动。
According to the agreement hammered out last week by the foreign ministers of Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia, none of those countries agreed to host any refugees permanently.
从泰国、马来西亚和印度尼西亚外交部上周达成的协议来看，它们都不同意让任何难民永久性地留在本国境内。
Australia’s prime minister, Tony Abbott, said Thursday that his country would not take any refugees from the current exodus.
澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)周四表示，澳大利亚不会接收目前这股浪潮中的任何难民。
Gambia said last week that it would take in all the Rohingya boat people, but experts questioned whether the West African state, whose own citizens have joined the deadly migration across the Mediterranean to Europe, had the capacity.
冈比亚上周表示将接收船上的所有罗辛亚人，但专家质疑这个西非国家是否具备接收难民的能力，毕竟其本国公民都在冒着生命危险穿越地中海前往欧洲。
Europe is consumed with its own migration crisis, as more than 1,700 migrants from Africa and the Middle East have died trying to enter Europe by sea in the first four months of this year, and more than 26,000 have landed.
目前，欧洲正在焦头烂额地应对自己的移民危机：今年前四个月，共有1700多名来自非洲和中东的移民因为试图经海路进入欧洲而身亡，另有逾2.6万人成功登陆。
“It’s going to be really hard,” said Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director of Human Rights Watch. “You have to have a number of governments say we will take quite a few Rohingya, but we haven’t seen that in the past.”
“这将非常困难，” 人权观察组织亚洲区副主任菲尔·罗伯逊(Phil Robertson)说。“必须有若干政府都表示他们将接收比较多的罗辛亚人，但我们过去没见过这种情况。”
Decades in limbo is not an uncommon fate for refugees. Somali refugees have endured in a camp in Kenya for more than 20 years, while generations of Palestinians have lived in camps in the Middle East since the 1948 Arab-Israeli war.
对于难民而言，数十年处于身份不明状态的情况并不少见。索马里难民在肯尼亚的一座难民营中熬过了20多年；自1948年第一次中东战争以来，数代巴勒斯坦人都居住在中东的难民营里。
Many of the refugees here are likely to join Malaysia’s swelling underclass of Rohingya refugees.
这里的许多难民都很可能会加入马来西亚正在膨胀的、由罗辛亚难民构成的下层阶级。
The United Nations refugee agency says 45,910 Rohingya were registered in Malaysia before the latest influx. Richard Towle, the agency’s representative in Malaysia, estimates that there were an additional 30,000 or more Rohingya who were not registered, either because their applications have not been processed or because they have not tried to register.
联合国难民署称，在最近的一次难民潮到来前，已有45910名罗辛亚难民在马来西亚登记。据联合国难民署驻马来西亚代表理查德·托尔(Richard Towle)估计，还有3万名或更多罗辛亚人尚未登记，有的是因为申请没得到处理，有的是因为他们并未试图登记。
The Rohingya refugees here said that Malaysia had treated them better than neighboring countries, but that their lives were circumscribed by the ban on work and schools, and by the difficulty in obtaining other permits for everyday needs.
这里的罗辛亚难民说，与邻国相比，马来西亚对他们更加友善，但是由于被禁止工作和上学，以及难以获得满足日常需要的其他许可，他们的生活受到了限制。
“The most difficult thing is because the government law says we cannot work,” said Sahid Mohammed, a Rohingya man who fled his village in 2009 and made the trip to Malaysia by sea. He and other refugees said they made an uncertain living by working informally on building sites, in restaurants and shops, and by recycling scrap and hawking small goods.
“最大的困难就是，政府法律规定我们不能工作，”2009年逃离自己所在的村庄，经海路来到马来西亚的罗辛亚人萨希德·穆罕默德(Sahid Mohammed)说。他与其他难民都表示，他们会在建筑工地、餐厅和商店从事非正式工作，并回收垃圾和兜售小商品，过着一种不稳定的生活。
“We would like to work to make a contribution, and to send money to our families, but we cannot keep good jobs because the bosses look at our cards and say, ‘You’re not allowed to work for me,’  ” he said. “Some bosses use that to exploit Rohingya, because they know we are working without real status.”
“我们想工作，想做贡献，想给家里钱，但我们无法一直做一些好的工作，因为老板会查看我们的证件，然后说，‘你们不能为我工作，’”他说。“有些老板会利用这一点来欺诈罗辛亚人，因为他们知道我们没有真实身份。”
“Given global priorities and the size of the problem here you are not going to be able to resettle your way out of a refugee problem of this size,” Mr. Towle said. “It’s not feasible. We think that if people are going to be here anyway we think it is good to regularize their status and give them the right to work.”
“鉴于全球事务的轻重缓急，以及这里的问题严重程度来看，你根本无法从这种规模的难民问题中找到出路，” 托尔说。“这样不可行。如果人们不论如何都要在这里的话，我们认为给他们合法身份，赋予他们工作的权利会是好的选择。”
Rohingya children in Malaysia attend privately run schools, often supported by volunteers, or they do not go to school at all.
马来西亚的罗辛亚儿童上的是私人经营的学校，这些学校往往由志愿者提供支持，还有些孩子根本不上学。
“Some of the children work as well,” said Dewi Karina Kamarulzaman, a graduate student who teaches at the Peace Learning Center, a makeshift school in a two-story home here on Penang Island that teaches more than 50 Rohingya children.
“有些孩子的表现很好，” 在和平学习中心(Peace Learning Center)授课的研究生德维·卡琳娜·卡玛鲁尔扎曼(Dewi Karina Kamarulzaman)说。这是一所临时学校，设在槟城岛上的一座两层房屋里，共有50多名罗辛亚儿童。
She estimated that more than half of Rohingya children in Penang did not attend school, often for lack of transportation. “They can’t even afford the bus fare,” she said.
据她估计，槟城岛超过一半的罗辛亚儿童都没有上学，原因往往是没有交通工具。她说，“他们甚至买不起公交车票。”
Ms. Hasinah, who is living with her husband and the three children in a single room in a shared house, has a more pressing concern: a 13-year-old son she left behind because she could not afford to pay the smugglers to take all four children.
哈西娜与丈夫及三个孩子一起，住在一套合住房屋的其中一个房间里，她还有一个更迫切的担忧：因为没有足够的钱让蛇头把四个孩子都带上，她还有一个13岁的儿子没过来。