Rooney Mara is not known for giving off the warmest of first impressions. Standoffish, aloof, icy, remote, guarded, distant, opaque, steely, impenetrable, unreadable: such tend to be the words used by journalists to describe their encounters with the actress, a less than inviting list of adjectives that I decide to lob at her the moment we meet in Manhattan. I figure my little ignoble stunt will put Mara on the defensive, stir up some deep-seated insecurities, maybe even provoke a flash of anger, all in the name of exposing some new, hidden dimension of the actress to the world.
鲁妮·玛拉(Rooney Mara)名声在外：她从不会给人留下热情洋溢的第一印象。冷漠，冷淡，高傲，漠然，戒心重，疏远，晦暗，顽强，琢磨不透，让人读不懂：记者们爱用这些词来描绘他们与这位女演员的会面。我们在曼哈顿见面的第一时间， 我就决定问她对这些拒人千里的形容词的看法。我猜想我的这个不大光彩的小把戏会迫使她采取守势，激起她内心深处的不安全感，没准还能小小激怒她一下。而这一切都是为了向大众们展示出这位女星之前不为人所知的一面。
“Yeah,” Mara says when I finish. “I kind of have a bad reputation, don’t I?”
“没错，”玛拉听了我列出那些形容词后说，“我是有那么一点坏名声，是不是？”
Her tone is so unruffled that she may as well be remarking on the weather in a city she doesn’t care to visit. And from there? Silence. Mara fixes me with the same unblinking, glacier-eyed stare she deploys so penetratingly on screen — most notably in her breakout role, as the cyberpunk Lisbeth Salander, in David Fincher’s 2011 adaptation of “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.” Finally, sensing victory in my discomfort, a sly grin springs up on Mara’s elfin, alabaster face.
她的语气平静得就好像在谈论一个她并不感兴趣的城市的天气。说完这番话之后她就沉默了，目不转睛地盯着我，眼神像冰川一般凛冽逼人。这犀利的眼神让人想到她在银幕上的形象，而最著名的莫过于赛伯朋克莉斯贝丝·莎兰德(Lisbeth Salander)——大卫·芬奇(David Fincher)2011导演的《龙纹身的女孩》(The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo)里的女主人公。这角色让玛拉一举成名。看到我显露出的局促，玛拉像是取得了某种胜利，她精灵般白润光滑的脸上浮现出一丝狡猾的微笑。
“Isn’t mystique and the unknown,” she asks, “part of what keeps you drawn to someone?”
“难道不正是神秘和未知让人趋之若鹜吗？”她问到。
Well, yes. Then again, in our confessional age the desire to conceal has been largely eclipsed by the urge to reveal. Today, the sort of actors who once complained about the tabloids now take to Twitter and Instagram to produce their own self-centric versions, carefully curating their personas, forever setting the record straight, always ensuring that we are fed a steady and quasi-intimate diet of everything from their eating habits to handbag preferences to what they look like (gasp!) without makeup. Mara, in this landscape, represents a disarming and refreshing outlier: she may not win people over in the way of Jennifer Lawrence, who never fails to come across as an irrepressible dervish of Kentucky Fried Fun, but she also doesn’t risk exhausting us with the robotic eagerness to please of an Anne Hathaway. Should I or anyone else choose to reinforce the chilly stereotypes of Mara already laid out for public consumption — well, go right ahead, is her attitude, one she began honing long before she became famous. “In high school, people thought I was stuck-up because I didn’t talk to anyone,” she says of growing up in Bedford, N.Y., a bucolic suburb of the city. “It was just because I was shy and scared, but I think because I’m super-self-possessed that it doesn’t come across as scared so much as stuck-up. I would hear what people thought and be like, ‘No! I’m actually nice!’ ” She laughs, rolls her eyes. “But now people can think whatever they want.”
她说的没错。可是，在我们这个人人都急于自我剖白的时代，展示的欲望大大超过了隐藏的意愿。那些从前抱怨过八卦小报的演员们如今把Twitter和Instagram账号变成了以自己为中心的小报。他们在上面小心翼翼地经营着自己的形象，发布关于自己的官方消息，并定时定量地用假装亲密的口吻与粉丝们分享他们生活中的种种细节，包括他们的饮食习惯，他们喜爱的手袋品牌和（天哪！）他们的素颜照片。在这个背景下，玛拉就像是个让人放弃戒备，并带来一股清新之气的外来者。她也许不能像詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrence)那样，用丝毫没有矫揉造作的热诚来赢得人们的好感，但是她也不会冒险像安妮·海瑟薇(Anne Hathaway)那样用机械的热情讨好大众，以至于让人审美疲劳。如果我或是别的什么人想加强玛拉给人这种冷漠而不易接近的固定形象，玛拉的态度是：那就由它去吧。成名之前，玛拉就已经养成了这个态度。玛拉谈起了她在纽约州贝德福一个有田园风味的郊区的成长经历：“在中学的时候，别人觉得我高傲自大，因为我不大跟人说话。但是这只是因为我又害羞又胆怯。可能我本人又超级冷静沉着，所以给了别人高傲的印象。那时候我知道别人是怎么想的，我真想告诉他们：‘你们想错了，我其实人很好呢！’”，说到这儿她笑了，翻了翻眼珠：“现在别人爱怎么想就由他们去吧。”
Indeed, in person Mara is quite friendly, punctuating many sentences with laughter and exuding an eager curiosity about subjects ranging from Philip Roth’s novels to her newfound addiction of binge watching the Swedish pop star Robyn’s latest music video. “She doesn’t take any interactions for granted, and she won’t hide it if something isn’t worth her time,” Fincher says. “But once you get to know her you realize she’s a playful girl, very funny, with a biting wit.” True, yet Mara seems to prefer that you don’t know this about her, recognizing that so long as people get her wrong it means that, as an actress, she is doing something right: remaining a slate so blank that just about any idea can be convincingly projected onto her. Her much-documented transformation for “Dragon Tattoo” (the motorcycle riding! the pierced nipple!) justly earned her a Best Actress Oscar nomination, and in the wake of that success Mara spent the better part of last year shooting four films back to back, a dizzying run during which she got to showcase her chameleon-like ability to mold herself into a variety of disparate characters while collaborating with a fantasy list of directors. First there was “Side Effects,” Steven Soderbergh’s Hitchcockian thriller about the pharmaceutical industry, in which Mara turned in a nuanced performance as the manipulative, pseudo-depressive wife of a fallen banker. Right after that wrapped she made her way to the Los Angeles set of “Her,” Spike Jonze’s take on sci-fi scheduled to come out in November, in which she portrays the ex-wife of a writer who falls in love with his computer’s operating system. Then she was off to shoot two films in Texas: the just-released “Ain’t Them Bodies Saints,” by the newcomer David Lowery, and Terrence Malick’s still-untitled meditation on love and obsession set against the backdrop of Austin’s music scene.
的确，玛拉本人其实很友好，对话不时被大笑打断，对各种事物都流露出热诚的好奇，从菲利普·罗斯(Philip Roth)的小说到瑞典流行歌星罗宾(Robyn)最新的音乐电视——她最近对罗宾上了瘾，看起来就没个完。“她不会对任何交流感到理所当然，所以当她对某些事毫无兴趣时，也丝毫不会掩饰。”芬奇说，“但你一旦认识了她，就会意识到她是个爱开玩笑的女孩，非常幽默，聪明得有些尖刻。”没错。但玛拉似乎更愿意隐藏这种印象，她认为只要人们误解她，这一定是她作为演员的成功之处：如同白纸一张，任何观点都可以很令人信服地投射到她身上。她表演《龙纹身的女孩》时形象大变（骑摩托车！乳头穿金属钉！），备受关注，并且为她赢得了奥斯卡最佳女主角的提名。在此盛誉之下，她去年多半年都在连续拍片，不间歇地演了四部电影。她充分展现了自己如同变色龙一般诠释多种截然不同的形象的演技，与她合作的导演也都是令人艳羡的大牌。先是《迷离药谎》(Side Effects)，斯蒂文·索德伯格(Steven Soderbergh)拍的希区柯克风格的惊悚片，讲述的是制药行业发生的故事。她在其中扮演一位落魄银行家工于心计，假装抑郁的妻子。她的表演细致入微。在这之后，她立刻投入了斯派克·琼斯(Spike Jonze)的以洛杉矶为背景的科幻片《她》(Her)，该片将在11月上映，片中她扮演一个作家的前妻，这位作家后来同自己的电脑操作系统堕入爱河。接下来，她去得克萨斯州拍了两部电影：刚刚上映的《险路迷情》(Ain’t Them Bodies Saints)，导演是新人大卫·罗尔瑞(David Lowery)。最后一部是泰伦斯·马利克(Terrence Malick)执导的一部以奥斯丁音乐行业为背景的探讨爱情与执着的新片，尚未命名。
Even before she had a career, Mara, who keeps a secret list of characters she’d like to play and people she hopes to work with, had a precociously clear idea of how she wanted to be seen in the industry. She became interested in acting at a young age, when her mother took her and her sister, Kate, to Broadway musicals and introduced the two to classic movies. “My sister started acting when she was young,” Mara says of the elder Kate, who’s currently starring in the Netflix political thriller “House of Cards.” “But I just knew I didn’t want to be a child actor. I knew I wanted to go to school and wanted to start when I was older, so I would be taken seriously.” The topic of her family, however, is one that retriggers Mara’s desire to keep certain facets of her life hidden behind veils. “I hate it when people ask me about my family — my football family,” Mara says of the clan known in sports circles as the founding and current owners of the Pittsburgh Steelers (on her mother’s side) and the New York Giants (on her father’s), an N.F.L. legacy from which she is eager to extricate herself. “It has no relevance to acting.”
玛拉自己有个秘密名单，里面是她希望扮演的角色和与之合作的人。在开始演艺生涯之前，她就已经颇为早熟地确定了自己在演艺圈的定位。她很小就开始对表演感兴趣，当时她母亲带着她和她的姐姐凯特去百老汇看音乐剧，并且让她们接触经典电影。“我姐姐很小就开始表演了，”玛拉说。凯特正在Netflix电视台的政治悬疑剧集《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)中扮演女配角。“但我自己不想当童星。我知道我想上学，等岁数稍大再开始演戏。这样人家才会看重我。”但一提到家人，玛拉就又回到原来的状态，希望自己生活的某些方面保持神秘。“我不喜欢别人问起我的家庭——我的橄榄球世家。”玛拉的家族在体育界大名鼎鼎——她母亲所属的家族创建并拥有匹兹堡钢人队，父亲一边的家族则是创建并拥有纽约巨人队。但玛拉却努力把自己跟这个美国橄榄球职业联盟的传奇划清界限。“这跟表演一点关系都没有。”
Mara’s latest decision — to stop working for a while when she is in her prime of what can be a maddeningly narrow window for women in film — is further evidence of how the 28-year-old actress values the idea of staying shrouded in a bit of mystery. “I haven’t worked since last Thanksgiving and I have no plans on working anytime soon,” she tells me. “After a movie I always feel a little lost. While you’re doing it you feel like you’re having some sort of revelation, like it’s real, and then its over and you’re like, ‘That was not real.’ ” Mara acknowledges that this hiatus is something of a gamble but to talk to those close to her is to learn that her ambition is tempered by her instincts toward self-preservation. “She doesn’t operate from a place of fear,” Jonze says. “She’s looking at the whole picture, and wants to figure out how to live her life.”
玛拉最近又做出惊人决定，暂时告别银幕——就在她演艺生涯的巅峰，这个对女演员们来说尤其短暂的事业窗口期。这个决定更能证明28岁的玛拉永远喜欢让自己的生活保持些许神秘。“从去年感恩节后我一直没工作过，近期也没什么计划再演电影，”她对我说。“每次拍过一部电影我都会觉得有些失落。在你演出时，你感觉似乎感受到某种启示，感觉这都是真的，但一旦结束了，你又会想，‘这并不真实。’”她也承认，这种事业间隙多少像场赌博，但与她身边人聊过就会清楚，她的事业心总是受到自我保护的本能制约。“她并不是出于恐惧才这么做，”琼斯说。“她考虑的是大局，她想找到自己的生活道路。”
These days that means leaving Los Angeles to spend time in New York. Talking about the possibilities of a summer spent unemployed, Mara becomes downright giddy, far from the frosty creature she’s typically portrayed as. “What’s something I could learn? What’s a new skill I could acquire?” she wonders aloud, before launching into a to-do list of achievements she hopes to rack up by summer’s end: learning a new language, probably French or Spanish; getting a sewing machine and teaching herself how to quilt; maybe dabbling in embroidery; finishing a novel she’s been struggling to get through. But more than anything, she tells me, she has become fixated on the idea of learning ballroom dance. She explains that, like acting, dancing would force her to shed her naturally reticent husk. “I have hidden rhythm — like, I’m a crazy dancer when I’m alone — but I’m a little too shy to let it come out in public.” Mara pauses, and then adds, “But, let me tell you, it’s going to come out.”
如今，生活对玛拉来说意味着离开洛杉矶，在纽约度日。谈到这个不用工作的夏天的计划，玛拉乐不可支，与她平时扮演的冰冷角色判若两人。“我能学点什么？能学习什么新技能？”她问出了声，然后马不停蹄地列举了一堆要在夏天结束前成就的事项：学习一门语言，很可能是法语或意大利语；买个缝纫机，自学如何做被子；或者再试试绣花；读完一本一直没有时间翻的小说。但她说，她最想做的是还是近期一直惦记的学跳标准舞。她解释说，跟表演一样，跳舞能迫使她放弃内向寡言的外壳。“我有内在的节奏感——自己一个人的时候会跳舞跳疯掉——但在大众面前就太害羞，没法发挥出来。”她停顿了一下，然后说：“但我告诉你，该发挥的总会发挥出来。”