WASHINGTON — It was a simple question to someone accustomed to much tougher ones: What was her proudest achievement as secretary of state? But for a moment, Hillary Rodham Clinton, appearing recently before a friendly audience at a women’s forum in Manhattan, seemed flustered.
华盛顿——对于习惯了难对付得多的提问的人来说，这是个简单的问题：担任国务卿期间最自豪的成就是什么？然而，不久前在曼哈顿出席女性论坛时，希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在友好的观众面前，有那么一阵似乎不知所措。
Mrs. Clinton played an energetic role in virtually every foreign policy issue of President Obama’s first term, advocating generally hawkish views internally while using her celebrity to try to restore America’s global standing after the hit it took during the George W. Bush administration.
在奥巴马首个总统任期的几乎每项外交政策上，克林顿都扮演了积极角色，在政府内部倡导大体鹰派的观点，同时利用自身的明星效应，努力恢复美国在前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)任内遭受打击的全球地位。
But her halting answer suggests a problem that Mrs. Clinton could confront as she recounts her record in Mr. Obama’s cabinet before a possible run for president in 2016: Much of what she labored over so conscientiously is either unfinished business or has gone awry in his second term.
不过，克林顿给出答案时的犹豫不决表明，在可能投身2016年大选之前，当她回忆起自己在奥巴马内阁的政治记录时，或许会面临一个问题：她曾殚精竭虑推动的许多事情，要么尚未成功，要么在奥巴马的第二个任期内出了岔子。
From Russia’s aggression in Ukraine and the grinding civil war in Syria to the latest impasse in the Middle East peace process, the turbulent world has frustrated Mr. Obama, and is now defying Mrs. Clinton’s attempts to articulate a tangible diplomatic legacy.
从俄罗斯入侵乌克兰，到叙利亚的残酷内战，再到中东和平进程最近的僵局，动荡的世界让奥巴马受挫的同时，如今也让克林顿难以描绘出一个确凿的外交成就。
“I really see my role as secretary, and, in fact, leadership in general in a democracy, as a relay race,” Mrs. Clinton finally said at the Women in the World meeting, promising to offer specific examples in a memoir she is writing that is scheduled to be released in June. “I mean, you run the best race you can run, you hand off the baton.”
“我真的是把自己这个国务卿的角色，实际上也是一个民主国家总体上的领导角色，看成是接力赛，”克林顿最后在世界女性大会(Women in the World)上说。她承诺，会在自己正在撰写并6月出版的回忆录中给出实例。“我的意思是，尽力跑出最好的水平，然后交出接力棒。”
The relay metaphor has become a recurring theme for Mrs. Clinton during this year of speculation about her future. She did her part, it suggests, but the outcome was out of her hands. And so Mrs. Clinton is striking a delicate balance when discussing a job that would be a critical credential in a presidential race.
在猜测克林顿未来的这一年里，用接力打比方已成为反复出现的主题。这种比喻暗示，她做好了自己的工作，但结果并不在她的掌控之中。这样，在讨论或许会成为总统竞选关键资质的国务卿工作时，她采取了一种微妙的平衡。
On the one hand, she wants credit for the parts of Mr. Obama’s foreign policy that have worked, like the pressure campaign against Iran over its nuclear program, which she helped orchestrate and which has pulled Iran to the bargaining table. On the other, she is subtly distancing herself from the things that have not worked out, like Mr. Obama’s “reset” of relations with Russia. She recently likened President Vladimir V. Putin’s annexation of Crimea to actions by Hitler in the 1930s, and posted on Twitter a photograph of herself with members of Pussy Riot, the protest group that is Mr. Putin’s nemesis.
一方面，克林顿希望从奥巴马外交政策成功的部分中分一杯羹，比如迫使伊朗放弃核计划的施压攻势。这一攻势由她协助策划，并已将伊朗拉到了谈判桌前。另一方面，她巧妙地与没有成效的事情保持距离，比如奥巴马“重启”与俄罗斯之间的关系。最近，她把俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)吞并克里米亚之举比作希特勒在上世纪30年代的所作所为，并且在Twitter上张贴了自己与Pussy Riot成员的合影，而这一抗议团体是普京的眼中钉。
In one sense, though, the cascade of foreign crises that now bedevil Mr. Obama could play to Mrs. Clinton’s advantage. By presenting herself in her book and in any possible campaign as the toughest voice in the room during the great debates over war and peace, she could set herself apart from a president whose critics charge has forsworn America’s leadership role in the world.
不过，某种程度上，如今让奥巴马焦头烂额的一连串外交危机或许可以为克林顿所用。批评人士指责，奥巴马总统背弃了美国在世界上的领导地位。而在回忆录以及任何可能的竞选活动中，她可以将自己塑造为就战争与和平展开的激辩中，己方团队里最强硬的声音，从而与奥巴马保持距离。
Mrs. Clinton has scrupulously avoided publicly criticizing Mr. Obama; White House aides said he still called her for advice. And much of the administration’s foreign policy still bears her imprint, like the Iran sanctions.
克林顿一直谨慎地避免公开批评奥巴马；白宫幕僚也表示，总统仍会给她打电话寻求建议。而且，奥巴马政府的许多外交政策仍然带有她的印记，比如针对伊朗的制裁。
But in recent interviews, two dozen current and former administration officials, foreign diplomats, friends and outside analysts described Mrs. Clinton as almost always the advocate of the most aggressive actions considered by Mr. Obama’s national security team — and not just in well-documented cases, like the debate over how many additional American troops to send to Afghanistan or the NATO airstrikes in Libya.
然而，在近期的采访中，根据二十多名现任与前任的奥巴马政府的官员、外交官、友人及外界分析人士的描绘，克林顿主张的行动，几乎总是奥巴马的国家安全团队眼中最为激进的选择，而且并不限于得到诸多报道的那些例子上，比如围绕着美国应向阿富汗增兵多少的辩论，以及北约对利比亚的空袭。
Mrs. Clinton’s advocates — a swelling number in Washington, where people are already looking to the next administration — are quick to cite other cases in which she took more hawkish positions than the White House: arguing for funneling weapons to Syrian rebels and for leaving more troops behind in postwar Iraq, and criticizing the results of a 2011 parliamentary election in Russia.
在华盛顿，克林顿的支持者日渐增多，他们已经开始放眼下一届政府了。这些支持者快速指出了她比白宫立场更鹰派的其他例子：主张向叙利亚反对派输送武器、主张战后在伊拉克保留更多的军队，以及谴责俄罗斯的2011年议会选举结果。
The criticism of the Russian election led Mr. Putin to accuse her of fomenting unrest, and left some of Mr. Obama’s senior aides unhappy. “Some at the White House thought she overstepped,” said Michael A. McFaul, a former ambassador to Russia, who supported her view.
对俄罗斯选举的批评导致普京指责她挑起动荡，也引得奥巴马的一些高级幕僚不快。“白宫有些人觉得她越权了，”前驻俄大使迈克尔·A·麦克福尔(Michael A. McFaul)说。他本人支持克林顿的观点。
At the same time, Mrs. Clinton’s instincts were curbed by her innate caution, her determination to show loyalty to a rival-turned-boss and her growing pains in the job. Still, dissecting her record yields tantalizing clues about what kind of foreign policy she might pursue as president. “Hillary unbound,” people who worked with her say, would be instinctively less reluctant than Mr. Obama to commit the military to foreign conflicts.
与此同时，由于天生的谨慎，向原来的老对手、现在的老板表忠诚的决心，以及在国务卿工作中经历的成长痛苦，克林顿的直觉受到了抑制。尽管如此，剖析她的记录，能够得到一些有趣的线索，预示如果她当总统或许会推行哪种对外政策。曾与她共事的人称，“不受约束的希拉里”在本能上将不会像奥巴马那样不愿在外国冲突中出兵。
“It’s not that she’s quick to use force, but her basic instincts are governed more by the uses of hard power,” said Dennis B. Ross, a former White House aide who played a behind-the-scenes role in opening secret direct talks with Iran about its nuclear program.
“倒不是说她会很快动用武力，而是她的本能更多地由硬实力运用来决定的，”前白宫幕僚丹尼斯·B·罗斯(Dennis B. Ross)说。他曾在美国与伊朗开启有关核计划的直接秘密谈判一事中起到幕后作用。
Leon E. Panetta, who forged close ties to Mrs. Clinton as defense secretary and C.I.A. director, said she was a stalwart supporter of the C.I.A.’s activities in Pakistan — read, drone strikes — and an influential voice in advising Mr. Obama to order the raid that killed Osama bin Laden.
利昂·E·帕内塔(Leon E. Panetta)在担任国防部长与中情局局长期间与克林顿形成了密切关系。他表示，克林顿坚定支持中情局在巴基斯坦采取的行动——意即无人机空袭——并且在奥巴马下令杀死奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)的突袭决策中，发挥了重要的顾问作用。
“The president has made some tough decisions,” Mr. Panetta said. “But it’s been a mixed record, and the concern is, the president defining what America’s role in the world is in the 21st century hasn’t happened.”
“总统做出了一些艰难的决定，”帕内塔说。“不过他的记录好坏参半。问题是，确立美国在21世纪地位的总统尚未出现。”
“Hopefully, he’ll do it,” Mr. Panetta said, “and certainly, she would.”
“希望他将来会去这么做，而她肯定会，”帕内塔说。
The Mideast Peace Process
中东和平进程
Mrs. Clinton’s hawkish inclinations were well established in her bitter 2008 Democratic primary campaign against Mr. Obama, when she famously criticized as naïve his willingness to talk to America’s adversaries without preconditions. But when he persuaded her to join his “team of rivals,” she submerged her views and worked hard to establish her loyalty — all of which has added to her problems in promoting her record.
在2008年民主党初选的恶斗中，克林顿的鹰派倾向已然确立。当时，她批评对手奥巴马幼稚，连前提条件都不提就去与美国的敌人对话。这一批评流传甚广。不过，当奥巴马说服她加入“对手内阁”后，她把观点埋在心中，努力证明自己的忠诚——这些都增加了她宣传自身政治记录的难度。
A case in point is the Middle East peace process, in which secretaries of state from Henry A. Kissinger to John Kerry have tried to make their mark. “There’s core-course curriculum, and then there’s extra credit,” said Denis R. McDonough, the White House chief of staff. “This is always seen as a core requirement for a secretary of state.”
中东和平进程就是一个佐证。从亨利·A·基辛格(Henry A. Kissinger)到约翰·克里(John Kerry)的历届国务卿都曾尝试在此留下印记。“有必修课，也有选修课，”白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)说。“对国务卿来说，这总是被看成必修课。”
Mrs. Clinton’s marching orders from the White House were to demand that Israel cease the building of Jewish settlements in the West Bank as a way to lure the Palestinians into talks, and she did so with a fervor that surprised Mr. Obama’s advisers. But they had conceived the strategy, and Mrs. Clinton privately had qualms with it, which proved well founded.
克林顿从白宫接到的行动命令是，要求以色列停止在约旦河西岸修建犹太人定居点，以此作为引诱巴勒斯坦谈判的手段。她非常积极地照做了，甚至超越了奥巴马幕僚的预期。这些幕僚构思了这一策略，但克林顿私下里有所保留，后来证明这种保留不是平白无故的。
“We did not make it sufficiently clear that this was not a precondition but part of an effort to create an overall atmosphere in which negotiations could succeed,” said George J. Mitchell, the former Middle East envoy who left in 2011 after failing to break the logjam.
“我们没能足够清楚地表明，这不是前提条件，而是为了创造出能使谈判成功的良好氛围的一种努力，”曾担任中东问题特使的乔治·J·米切尔(George J. Mitchell)说。未能打破僵局后，他于2011年去职。
Building Pressure on Iran
向伊朗不断施压
Mrs. Clinton was more successful in dealing with Iran. As with the Middle East, she was skeptical that Mr. Obama’s initial strategy — reaching out to Iran’s leaders — would work. So when he shifted to sanctions, she was eager to build pressure on what she called a “military dictatorship.”
克林顿在伊朗问题的处理上要更成功一些。与中东问题一样，她对奥巴马的初始策略——主动接触伊朗领导人——能否奏效心存疑虑。因此，当奥巴马转向制裁的时候，她迫切地向自己口中的“军事独裁体制”不断施压。
It was a tough job against long odds, said Tom Donilon, the former national security adviser, because it meant pressing allies in Europe and Asia, huge trading partners of Iran, to agree to steps “that had a real cost.”
前国家安全顾问汤姆·多尼隆 (Tom Donilon)表示，这是一项艰巨的任务，胜算很低，因为需要向欧洲和亚洲的盟友施压，迫使它们同意采取“会付出真实代价”的行动，而伊朗是这些国家的重要贸易伙伴。
Mrs. Clinton delivered her stern message with a smile. In June 2010, the day before the United Nations voted on strict new sanctions against Iran, Mrs. Clinton invited China’s ambassador to Washington, Zhang Yesui, to a hotel bar in Lima, Peru, where both were at a conference.
克林顿用温和的方式传递了她的严厉讯息。2010年6月，在联合国投票决定是否对伊朗实施新的严厉制裁的前一天，克林顿邀请中国驻美大使张业遂见了面，地点是秘鲁利马的一家酒店的酒吧。两人当时均在利马出席会议。
Drinking pisco sours, the potent local cocktail, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Zhang went over an annex to the Security Council resolution line by line as she tried to clinch Beijing’s agreement to withdraw investments in Iran by Chinese banks and state-owned enterprises.
他们一边喝着当地的皮斯科酸酒——一种浓烈的鸡尾酒——一边逐行审阅了安理会决议的一项附件。与此同时，克林顿试图劝服北京撤出中资银行和国企对伊朗的投资。
The sanctions, Mrs. Clinton likes to remind audiences, crippled Iran’s oil exports and currency, setting the stage for the election of Hassan Rouhani, a relative moderate, as president and for Iran’s renewed interest in diplomacy.
克林顿经常提醒人们，制裁措施严重削弱了伊朗的石油出口和货币，为相对温和的哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)当选总统、伊朗恢复外交兴趣创造了条件。
Mr. Obama had first proposed direct talks in a letter to Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, in 2009. Mrs. Clinton authorized Mr. Ross, then her special adviser, to explore a back channel to the Iranians through the Arab sultanate of Oman.
2009年，在给伊朗最高领导人阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)的一封信中，奥巴马首次提出了直接谈判的建议。克林顿指派她当时的特别顾问罗斯，研究能否通过阿拉伯半岛的阿曼苏丹国获取接近伊朗人的秘密渠道。
In January 2011, Mrs. Clinton stopped in Oman on a tour of the Persian Gulf that was notable because she gave a speech, on the eve of the Arab Spring, warning leaders that they risked “sinking in the sand” if they did not reform their societies. Less noticed was her meeting with the sultan, in which he offered to facilitate a meeting with the Iranians.
2011年1月，在对波斯湾地区的访问中，克林顿到访了阿曼。此行格外引人注目，因为当时正值阿拉伯之春前夕，而她发表了一番演讲，警告一些国家的领导人，如果不对社会进行改革，他们可能会“在沙漠里越陷越深”。而不那么引人注意的是，她还与阿曼苏丹见了面，在会谈中，后者主动提出促成美伊之间的会面。
After some exploratory meetings with a delegation from Tehran, Mrs. Clinton sent two of her top lieutenants, William J. Burns and Jake Sullivan, to Oman for more intensive negotiations. That opened the door to the nuclear talks now underway in Vienna. But what her colleagues remember most is her steadfast conviction that Iran would deal only under duress.
在与德黑兰的代表团举行了几次探索性的会议之后，克林顿派出两个高级副官——威廉·J·伯恩斯(William J. Burns)和杰克·苏利文(Jake Sullivan)——到阿曼参与更彻底的谈判。此举为目前正在维也纳举行的核谈判打开了大门。对她的同僚来说，印象最深的则是她毫不动摇的信念，即伊朗只有在胁迫下才可能达成协议。
“She was skeptical that it would produce anything, or at least anything quickly, and in a way she was right because it took several years to get to that point,” said Mr. Burns, a deputy secretary of state.
“她很怀疑这会产生什么效果，至少短期不会。从某种角度来说，她是对的，因为的确花了好几年的时间才到了那一步，”副国务卿伯恩斯说。
A Different Standard
标准不一
As Mrs. Clinton’s aides shape her legacy, one of their biggest frustrations has been explaining that the most publicized work of her tenure — her emphasis on the rights of women and girls — was not a safe or soft issue, but part of a broader strategy that strengthens national security. Mrs. Clinton may be the only diplomat, they say, who is criticized for being simultaneously too dovish and too hawkish.
克林顿的幕僚正在宣传她的政治遗产，而他们面临的一大难题是，如何证明她国务卿任期内最广为人知的工作——对妇女和女童权益的重视——不是四平八稳或软弱的议题，而是加强国家安全的宏观战略的组成部分。他们说，克林顿可能是唯一一个同时被批评太强硬和太软弱的外交官。
“You can’t have it both ways,” said Thomas R. Nides, a former deputy secretary of state who is now a vice chairman at Morgan Stanley. “You can’t say that she’s about soft power, women and girls, and hospitals and ribbon cuttings, and simultaneously maintain that all she cares about is drones, missiles, going to war.”
曾任副国务卿的摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)副董事长托马斯·R·奈兹(Thomas R. Nides)说，“你不能两者兼得。不能说她做的事都是软实力范畴，妇女、女童、医院和剪彩，同时又坚称，她只关心无人机、导弹、开战。”
Because of her celebrity and her potential political future, Mrs. Clinton’s advocates say, she is held to a different standard than other secretaries of state. More than ever, they say, the job is defined not by clear victories but by a dogged commitment to the process.
克林顿的支持者认为，由于她的名望和潜在的政治前景，人们对她的评判标准与其他国务卿存在差异。他们称，这个职位的成就，从来没有像今天这样，不是靠一场场明确的胜利结果来确立的，而是靠过程中的顽强决心。
Mrs. Clinton’s vision of 21st-century diplomacy mirrors what her allies say is a vision of a more engaged America. The question is whether that vision will be appealing to a nation that, after 12 years of war, is weary of foreign adventures. Liberal critics may have no other choice for a candidate.
她的盟友表示，克林顿对21世纪外交的愿景，反映了一个参与度更高的美国。问题是，对于在12年的战争之后已厌倦了在海外冒险的美国，这个愿景是否具备吸引力？不过，除了克林顿，自由派的批评人士可能也别无选择。
“Although there will be a good number of folks in the Democratic Party who are uncomfortable with her hawkishness, they will ask themselves, ‘Where else can we go?’ ” said Paul R. Pillar, a former C.I.A. analyst who now teaches at Georgetown University and supports Mr. Obama’s more cautious view of the American role abroad.
前CIA分析师保罗·R·皮勒(Paul R. Pillar)目前在乔治城大学(Georgetown University)担任教职。他说，“尽管民主党内将有很多人对她的强硬立场感到不安，他们也只能问自己，‘还有其他选择吗？’”皮勒本人支持奥巴马的观点，即美国应在海外扮演较为谨慎的角色。
Mr. McDonough, one of Mr. Obama’s closest foreign policy advisers, declares himself a great admirer of Mrs. Clinton. But he was on the other side of the internal debate over providing weapons to the Syrian rebels, and, like his boss, is cautious about the use of American force. However harrowing the conflict, he said, “you have to be disciplined about where you invest this country’s power.”
奥巴马最亲密的外交政策顾问之一麦克多诺公开宣称，自己非常仰慕克林顿。不过，在有关向叙利亚反对派提供武器的内部讨论中，他却站在了另一边。就像他的老板一样，麦克多诺对美国使用武力的态度十分谨慎。他说，无论发生多么令人痛苦的冲突，“在把国家实力投射到哪里的问题上，你必须保持克制。”
“We’re leaving an era where the country gave the president a lot of leeway, in terms of resources, in terms of time,” Mr. McDonough said. “It will be a long time before a president has the kind of leeway in this space that President Bush had.”
麦克多诺称，“在目前的时代，国家在资源和时间方面已经不会再给总统留有大量余地。再过很长一段时间，美国的总统才会重新拥有布什总统曾经享有的那种空间。”