JAKARTA, Indonesia — The Christian governor of the capital of Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim-majority nation, has been fighting for his political life in an election campaign charged with religious and ethnic undertones. After voters went to the polls Wednesday, it appeared he would have to fight a little longer.
印度尼西亚雅加达——印度尼西亚是世界上人口最多的以穆斯林为主的国家，该国首都的长官是个基督徒，在一场充满了宗教和族裔色彩的竞选活动中，他一直在为自己的政治生涯而奋斗。周三选民投票后，他可能还需要再奋斗一段时间。
Unofficial results from the balloting in Jakarta, the capital, indicated that the governor, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, held a small lead over his nearest challenger but was unlikely to win more than 50 percent of the vote. If the official results confirm that, a runoff will be held April 18.
首都雅加达投票的非正式统计结果显示，和最接近的挑战者相比，首长锺万学(Basuki Tjahaja Purnama)的领先优势很小，但不太可能赢得超过50%的选票。如果这个结果获得了官方的证实，决选将于4月18日举行。
Basuki, who is ethnic Chinese, has been hobbled by a criminal trial on a charge of blasphemy against Islam, in connection with remarks about a Quran verse that he made last year.
锺万学是华裔，一直受制于一起伊斯兰亵渎罪指控的刑事审判，该案和他去年对古兰经经文的评论有关。
Basuki and his supporters say the court case, which was preceded by mass protests in the capital by Islamists demanding that he be prosecuted or even lynched, was orchestrated by political opponents to sabotage his election campaign. Analysts also saw the furor over Basuki’s remarks as an attempt to weaken President Joko Widodo, a key ally of the governor who is expected to seek a second term in 2019.
案件审判之前，雅加达发生了公众抗议活动，伊斯兰主义者要求起诉他甚至处以死刑，锺万学及其支持者说，这起案件是由政治反对派精心策划的，目的是破坏他的竞选活动。分析人士也认为，对锺万学言论的愤怒举动是为了削弱总统佐科·维多多(Joko Widodo)的实力。佐科是锺万学的重要盟友，预计将在2019年寻求第二个任期。
Basuki, widely known by his nickname Ahok, is only the second non-Muslim governor of Jakarta, and if he wins, he will be the first non-Muslim to be directly elected to the post. He was elevated from deputy governor in 2014 after Joko, his predecessor, was elected president.
锺万学有一个广为人知的昵称Ahok，他是雅加达的第二个非穆斯林市长，如果他赢了，他将是第一个通过直接选举当选为该市市长的非穆斯林。在前任佐科当选总统后，锺万学于2014年从副市长升任为市长。
Hours after the polls closed Wednesday, independent polling firms put Basuki in the lead with 43 percent of the vote, and Anies Baswedan, a former minister of education and culture, in second with 40 percent.
在投票结束几个小时后，独立的投票公司称锺万学以43%的得票率领先，而前教育和文化部长阿尼斯·巴斯威丹(Anies Baswedan)则获得了40%的选票。
Other counts had Basuki ahead by slightly different margins. A third candidate, Agus Yudhoyono, a former army officer and son of a former president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, finished a distant third.
对于锺万学的领先优势，其他统计机构的结果略有不同。排在第三位的候选人前军官阿古斯·尤多约诺(Agus Yudhoyono)远远落在后面，他是前总统苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)的儿子。
Both of Basuki’s opponents are Muslim and Javanese, the dominant ethnic group on the island where Jakarta sits. Indonesia’s population of 250 million includes more than 190 million Muslims, but it has small but influential minority populations of Christians, Hindus and Buddhists.
锺万学的这两个对手都是穆斯林和爪哇人，属于雅加达所在岛上的主要族群。印度尼西亚有2.5亿人口，其中穆斯林逾1.9亿，但也有基督徒、印度教徒和佛教徒，人数不多但影响力很大。
However, analysts said Basuki’s failure to win the election outright in the first round could be his undoing, because most of the voters who supported Agus are expected to then back the second-round campaign of Anies.
然而分析人士说，锺万学未能在第一轮选举中胜出，可能就已经失败，因为支持阿古斯的大多数选民估计会在第二轮中支持阿尼斯。