JAKARTA, Indonesia — The Islamic State claimed responsibility for a terrorist attack in the Indonesian capital on Thursday, raising the specter of an expanded presence by the group in Southeast Asia.
印尼雅加达——伊斯兰国(Islamic State)声称对本周四印尼首都发生的恐怖袭击负责，令人担忧该组织在东南亚的存在正在增强。
The Syrian civil war has been a source of inspiration for violent Islamists in Indonesia, and hundreds have traveled to Syria to join the Islamic State over the past several years. But recently they appear to have sought targets closer to home. Extremists claiming to represent the Islamic State carried out small-scale attacks in Indonesia and the Philippines last year.
对暴戾的印尼伊斯兰主义者而言，叙利亚内战已经成为一种感召。过去几年里，已经有成百上千的印尼人前赴叙利亚，投奔伊斯兰国。但最近他们似乎开始寻求离家较近的攻击目标。去年，自称代表伊斯兰国的极端分子在印尼和菲律宾开展了一系列小规模的袭击。
“In the last six months, we’ve seen a spike of planning for violence in Indonesia,” said Sidney Jones, a terrorism expert and the director of the Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict in Jakarta. “It’s a desire to prove that jihadi groups are still alive and well in Indonesia and are committed to carrying out the ISIS agenda.”
“过去的六个月里，在印尼实施暴力攻击的计划出现了剧增，”雅加达冲突政策分析研究所(Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict)主任、反恐专家西德尼·琼斯(Sidney Jones)说。“他们渴望证明印尼的圣战组织还活着，正在积极地按照ISIS的策略行事。”
In Thursday’s attack in the center of Jakarta, militants targeted a police traffic post near an affluent shopping area, then set off explosions in an apparent suicide attack outside a nearby Starbucks coffee shop. At least seven people were killed, including five of the assailants, and 23 people were injured, the police said.
本周四在雅加达市中心，武装分子将一个高端购物区的交警站作为袭击目标，然后似乎以自杀式袭击的方式，在附近的一家星巴克咖啡店外引爆了炸弹。警方称至少有七人丧生，其中包括五名袭击者，另有23人受伤。
The Islamic State took responsibility for the attack in a statement released on its official Telegram channel, an encrypted phone app.
在加密手机应用Telegram上，伊斯兰国的官方帐号发表声明，称对这次袭击事件负责。
Gen. Tito Karnavian, chief of the Jakarta Provincial Police and the former head of the country’s elite national police counterterrorism unit, said at a news conference on Thursday that the perpetrators were linked to leaders of the Islamic State in Raqqa, Syria, and warned that the group was expanding its operations across the region, including in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand.
印尼雅加达警察长狄托·卡纳维安(Tito Karnavian)将军曾负责该国的精英警察反恐单位。在周四的新闻发布会上，他说袭击者与伊斯兰国在叙利亚拉卡的领导层有关联，他还警告说，该组织正在该地区增加活动，涉及的国家包括印尼、马来西亚、菲律宾和泰国。
He identified the organizer as an Indonesian citizen believed to be in Syria. The suspect, Bahrun Naim, is a leader of Katibah Nusantara, a Southeast Asian-based military unit under the Islamic State, General Karnavian said. The police appear to have been aware of Mr. Bahrun for some time.
他称这次袭击的组织者是印尼公民巴伦·纳伊姆(Bahrun Naim)，此人据信目前身在叙利亚。卡纳维安说，纳伊姆是伊斯兰国下属的东南亚军事组织“马来群岛战斗小组”(Katibah Nusantara)的首领。警方似乎注意他已经有一段时间了。
At least 16 terrorism suspects have been arrested in Indonesia in the past month alone, and the police said they received information in late November that the Islamic State was planning “a concert” in Indonesia, possibly meaning an attack.
仅在上月，印尼就逮捕了至少16名恐怖嫌疑人。警方表示，去年11月下旬，他们接到线报称，伊斯兰国计划在印尼开“一场演唱会”，可能是指发动一次袭击。
Despite the fear caused by gunfire and blasts in the middle of a major Asian city, the limited casualties on Thursday raised questions about the terrorists’ destructive capabilities. The police said the explosives used were small bombs or grenades, much less powerful than those used in previous attacks in the country, including one in which a large car bomb on the resort island of Bali in 2002 killed more than 200 people, the vast majority of them foreigners.
尽管在亚洲一座大城市响起的枪声和爆炸声引起了恐惧，周四的伤亡数字较小地引起了人们对恐怖分子破坏能力的疑问。警方表示，本次爆炸的是小型炸弹或手榴弹，威力远远小于该国以往袭击案中的爆炸物。2002年，度假胜地巴厘岛曾发生过一起重大的汽车炸弹袭击案，遇难人数超过200人，绝大多数都是外国人。
Indonesia is the world’s most populous Muslim-majority country, with a tradition of tolerance toward other religions. A tiny fraction of the population is radicalized, analysts say, but in recent years, the country has grappled with rising tensions between moderates and hard-line groups, some of them peaceful and others militant, promoting what they say is a purer interpretation of Islam.
印尼是世界上人口最多的以穆斯林为主的国家，传统上对其他宗教比较容忍。分析人士称，该国只有极少数人属于激进分子。但近年来，印尼的温和派和强硬派团体之间关系日趋紧张，强硬派宣扬他们认为的对伊斯兰教更加纯净的解释，其组织有的平和、有的好斗。
Militants inside Indonesia have often targeted churches, Buddhist temples, Western embassies, businesses and tourists – the very symbols of the country’s openness and plurality. Thursday’s attack was the first major one in Jakarta since the twin bombings of two hotels in 2009.
印尼境内的武装分子经常攻击教堂、佛教寺庙，西方国家使馆、企业和游客——这些是该国的开放性和多元化的根本标志。周四的袭击案是自2009年雅加达两家酒店分别遭受炸弹攻击以来，该市发生的第一起重大袭击案。
Mr. Bahrun served a prison sentence in West Java Province in Indonesia in 2012 for illegal possession of firearms and explosives, and he is identified as the author of a recent blog post praising the November terrorist attacks in Paris and their high death toll. The post, titled “Lessons from the Paris Attacks,” urged his fellow Indonesians “to study the planning, targeting, timing, coordination, security and courage of the Paris teams,” according to an article by Ms. Jones, the terrorism expert.
2012年时，纳伊姆曾因非法持有枪支和爆炸物，被判在印尼西爪哇省的监狱服刑。他被认定为最近的一篇博客帖子《巴黎攻击案的经验教训》的作者，帖中盛赞了去年11月的巴黎恐怖袭击案及其导致的巨大死伤数字。反恐专家琼斯的一篇文章称，该帖敦促印尼同胞“研究巴黎团队的计划制定、目标和时机选择、协调、安全和勇气”。
In April 2015, Katibah Nusantara fighters captured territory held by Kurdish forces in Syria, a boon for its online drive to recruit new fighters and supporters among Malay speakers in Southeast Asia, according to research paper published last year by the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore.
2015年4月，“马来群岛战斗小组”的武装分子在叙利亚夺得了本由库尔德武装控制的地区。据新加坡拉惹勒南国际研究院(S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies)去年发表的一份研究论文称，此事有助于该组织通过网络在东南亚说马来语的人群中招募新的武装分子和支持者。
“The growing reach of Katibah Nusantara could lead to its expanding influence in Islamic State’s decision-making process, in turn leading I.S. giving greater priority to Southeast Asia as its war zone,” the researches said.
“‘马来群岛战斗小组’的影响力渐长，可能会促使其在伊斯兰国的决策制定过程中的影响增加，反过来导致伊斯兰国提高东南亚作为战区的优先地位，”研究人员称。
The militants initially targeted the police traffic post on Jalan Thamrin, one of Jakarta’s main thoroughfares. Video showed a series of blasts in a parking lot across the street from the post, just yards from the front doors of a Starbucks coffee shop and a Burger King restaurant. Video aired on local television appeared to show two of the attackers blowing themselves up near the Starbucks.
武装分子最初的目标是雅加达主干道Jalan Thamrin上的交警站。视频显示，与交警站隔街相望的一处停车场发生了一系列爆炸。该停车场离一家星巴克咖啡馆和一家汉堡王餐厅的前门只有几码的距离。在当地电视台上播出的视频中，两名袭击者似乎在星巴克附近引爆了炸弹。
At least one assailant fired at the police post. Security forces stormed the area, and the police later said they had arrested four suspects.
至少有一名袭击者朝交警站开枪。安全部队对该地区进行了突查。警方后来称逮捕了四名嫌疑人。
The two civilians killed in the attack were a Canadian and an Indonesian, President Joko Widodo’s cabinet secretary, Pramono Anung, said at a news conference. Canada’s foreign affairs ministry did not immediately confirm whether a Canadian citizen had died.
印尼总统佐科·威多多(Joko Widodo)的内阁秘书普拉莫诺·阿农(Pramono Anung)在新闻发布会上表示，在袭击中遇害的两名平民中，一位是加拿大人，一位是印尼人。加拿大外交部未立即证实是否有加国公民遇害。
A Dutch man, an expert in forestry and ecosystems management for the United Nations, was seriously wounded and was being treated at a hospital, a spokesman for the Dutch Embassy in Jakarta said. The United Nations declined to identify the man, but said he was “fighting for his life.”
雅加达的荷兰大使馆发言人表示，一名荷兰籍男子身受重伤，正在医院接受治疗。该男子受雇于联合国，是一名林业和生态系统管理专家。联合国拒绝透露这名男子的身份，但称他正在“与死神斗争”。
The police department’s public relations division said in a post on its official Facebook page that 23 people had been treated for injuries, including five police officers, four foreigners and 14 other civilians.
警察局的公共关系部门在其Facebook官方页面上发帖称，23人因伤接受治疗，包括五名警察、四名外国人和14名平民。