One of Yahoo’s newest employees is a 17-year-old high school student in Britain. As of Monday, he is one of its richest, too.
雅虎的最新员工包括一位来自英国的17岁高中生。截至周一，他也是该公司最富有的员工之一。
That student, Nick D’Aloisio, a programming whiz who wasn’t even born when Yahoo was founded in 1994, sold his news-reading app, Summly, to Yahoo on Monday for a sum said to be in the tens of millions of dollars. Yahoo said it would incorporate his algorithmic invention, which takes long-form stories and shortens them for readers using smartphones, in its own mobile apps, with Mr. D’Aloisio’s help.
雅虎创建于1994年，当时这位名为尼克·达洛伊西奥(Nick D’Aloisio)的学生还没有出生。周一，这位编程奇才将自己编写的新闻阅读应用Summly出售给雅虎，据称交易金额达到了数千万美元。雅虎表示，在达洛伊西奥的帮助下，该公司会将他的创新算法并入雅虎自己的移动应用中，该算法能为那些使用智能手机的读者精简长篇新闻报道的篇幅。
“I’ve still got a year and a half left at my high school,” he said in a telephone interview on Monday, but, partly to abide by the company’s new and much-debated policy that prohibits working from home, he will make arrangements to test out of his classes and work from the Yahoo office in London.
周一，达洛伊西奥在接受电话采访时表示，“我还有一年半才能高中毕业。”但部分因为要遵守雅虎备受争议的新政策——禁止在家办公，他将会作出安排，进行远程考试，并在雅虎的伦敦办公室工作。
Mr. D’Aloisio declined to comment on the price paid by Yahoo (the technology-oriented Web site All Things D pegged the purchase price at about $30 million), and he described himself not as the majority owner of Summly but as its largest shareholder.
达洛伊西奥拒绝就雅虎的出价发表评论（技术类网站All Things D称交易金额约为3000万美元[约合1.86亿元人民币]）。他没有以Summly多数股权拥有者自居，称自己是其最大股东。
Summly’s other investors, improbably enough, included Wendi Murdoch, Ashton Kutcher and Yoko Ono. The most important one was Li Ka-shing, the Hong Kong billionaire, whose investment fund supported Mr. D’Aloisio’s idea early on, before it was even called Summly.
令人难以置信的是，Summly的其他投资商包括邓文迪、艾什顿·库彻(Ashton Kutcher)和小野洋子(Yoko Ono)。其中最重要的要数香港的亿万富翁李嘉诚(Li Ka-shing)，他在这款应用还没有被称为Summly前，就通过自己的投资基金为达洛伊西奥提供支持。
“They took a gamble on me when I was a 15-year-old,” Mr. D’Aloisio said, by providing seed financing that let him hire employees and lease office space.
达洛伊西奥说，“在我15岁的时候，他们就冒险支持我。”他们提供了启动资金，让达洛伊西奥聘请员工，租用办公室。
The fund read about Mr. D’Aloisio’s early-stage app on the Silicon Valley news site TechCrunch, found his e-mail address and startled him with a message expressing interest.
该基金在硅谷(Silicon Valley)新闻网站TechCrunch上看到了有关达洛伊西奥早期应用程序的新闻，并找到了他的邮箱地址，给他发邮件表示对此感兴趣，这让达洛伊西奥感到吃惊。
The others signed up later. “Because it was my first time around, people just wanted to help,” he said.
后来，其他投资者也纷纷加入。他说，“由于这是我第一次尝试，人们只是想帮忙。”
For teenagers who fancy themselves entrepreneurs — and their parents, too — the news of the sale conjured up some feelings of inadequacy, but also awe. For Brian Wong, the 21-year-old founder of Kiip, a mobile rewards company, the reaction was downright laughable: “I feel old!”
对于那些幻想自己成为企业家的青少年及其父母来说，有关此次交易的新闻让他们产生了一种力不从心的感觉，同时也感到敬畏。21岁的黄铁峰(Brian Wong)是移动奖励公司Kiip的创始人，他的反应非常搞笑，“我感觉自己好老！”
A few years ago, Mr. Wong was described in the news media as the youngest person ever to receive venture capital funding. But a couple of younger founders came along — “and then Nick broke all of our records,” Mr. Wong said on Monday.
几年前，媒体称黄铁峰是有史以来最年轻的风投资金获得者。但后来出现了几个更年轻的创始人，黄铁峰在周一表示，“尼克打破了我们所有人的纪录。”
Among the attributes that helped Mr. D’Aloisio, he said, was a preternatural ability to articulate exactly what he wanted Summly to be. “There were no umms, no uhhs, no hesitations, no insecurities,” Mr. Wong said.
他表示，使达洛伊西奥获得成功的因素之一就是，他具有一种不可思议的能力，能够清晰的表明他想要Summly成为什么样的应用。黄铁峰说，“他没有嗯，没有啊，没有犹豫不觉，没有惶惶不安。”
Mr. D’Aloisio, for his part, sounded somewhat uninterested in answering questions about his age on Monday. He acknowledged that it was an advantage in some pitch meetings, and certainly in the news media, “but so was the strength of the idea.” He was more eager to talk about his new employer, Yahoo, which is trying to reinvent itself as a technology company (having dropped the digital media tagline it used before Marissa Mayer became chief executive last year).
而就达洛伊西奥本人而言，他周一听起来似乎不太愿意回答关于年龄的问题。他承认这在一些推介会上是个优势，在媒体方面当然也是如此，“但这个创意本身也颇为不凡”。他更愿意谈论他的新雇主雅虎。该公司正在努力转型为一家科技公司。自从去年玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)担任首席执政官以来，雅虎就不再说自己是数字媒体了。
“People are kind of underestimating how powerful it’s going to become and how much opportunity is there,” he said.
他说，“人们有点低估了它的潜力和这个领域的机会。”
For a company that badly wants to be labeled innovative, those words are worth a lot.
对于一家极其希望被贴上创新标签的公司而言，这些话价值千金。
Mr. D’Aloisio’s father, a commodities trader, and his mother, a lawyer, had no special knowledge of technology. But they nurtured their son’s fascination with it and he started coding at age 12. Eventually he decided to develop an app with what he calls an “automatic summarization algorithm,” one that “can take pre-existing long-form content and summarize it.” In other words, it tries to solve a problem that is often summed up with the abbreviation T.L., D.R: “too long, didn’t read.”
达洛伊西奥的父亲是大宗商品交易员，母亲是律师，他们都对科技不甚了解。但是，他们却培养了儿子对科技的热爱。达洛伊西奥从12岁开始编程，后来，他决定利用他所谓的“自动摘要算法”来开发一个应用程序，这种程序“针对现有的长篇内容自动生成摘要”。换而言之，它试图解决一个经常缩略为“TL, DR”的问题，即“篇幅过长，没有阅读”(too long, didn’t read)。
Summly officially came online last November. By December, Mr. D’Aloisio was talking to Yahoo and other suitors.
去年11月，Summly正式上线。到12月时，达洛伊西奥便开始与雅虎等公司展开商谈。
Yahoo said in a statement that while the Summly app would be shut down, “we will acquire the technology and you’ll see it come to life throughout Yahoo’s mobile experiences soon.”
雅虎在一项声明中称，虽然Summly应用程序即将下线，“我们将获得这项技术，你马上就会看到，它将在雅虎的移动服务中重生。”
Other news-reading and news-skimming apps made for mobile devices have attracted news media and technology company attention as of late. The social network LinkedIn was said to be pursuing an app called Pulse earlier this month. Still, the eight-figure payday for a teenage entrepreneur on Monday struck some as outlandish and set off speculation that Yahoo was willing to pay almost any price for “cool.”
近来，为移动设备设计的其他新闻阅读和新闻浏览应用也引起了新闻媒体和科技公司的注意。据称，社交网络LinkedIn本月早些时候曾试图买下一个叫做Pulse的应用程序。尽管如此，这位少年企业家周一获得八位数报酬的事实还是让有些人感到震惊，人们还由此猜测，为了“酷”，雅虎几乎愿意付出任何代价。
Mr. D’Aloisio, though, will have a long time to prove his and his algorithm’s worth. As for the sizable paycheck from Yahoo, he said he did not have any specific plans for the sudden windfall. “It’s going to be put into a trust fund and my parents will help manage it,” he said.
达洛伊西奥将有很长的时间来证明他自己和他的算法的价值。而对于雅虎的巨额报酬，他说他对这笔从天而降的钱财还没有任何特殊计划。他说，“这笔钱会被存进信托基金，我的父母将帮我进行管理。”