Since Marissa Mayer became chief executive of Yahoo, she has been working hard to get the Internet pioneer off its deathbed and make it an innovator once again.
自从担任雅虎(Yahoo)首席执行官之后，玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)就一直努力使这家互联网先锋公司起死回生，再次成为一个创新者。
She started with free food and new smartphones for every employee, borrowing from the playbook of Google, her employer until last year. Now, though, Yahoo has made a surprise move: abolishing its work-at-home policy and ordering everyone to work in the office.
她首先学习前任雇主公司谷歌(Google)，给每一位员工提供免费食物以及新智能手机，毕竟去年以前梅耶尔一直在谷歌工作。但是，雅虎现在却做出惊人之举：废除了在家工作的政策，让每个员工回到办公室上班。
A memo explaining the policy change, from the company’s human resources department, says face-to-face interaction among employees fosters a more collaborative culture — a hallmark of Google’s approach to its business.
该公司人力资源部的一份备忘录对这项政策的解释称，员工之间面对面交流可以培养更加合作的文化。而这正是谷歌运作方式的特点。
In trying to get back on track, Yahoo is taking on one of the country’s biggest workplace issues: whether the ability to work from home, and other flexible arrangements that help attract and retain employees, leads to greater productivity or inhibits innovation and collaboration.
为了东山再起，雅虎正在着手处理美国职场最大的问题之一：在家工作以及其他一些能够吸引并留住员工的灵活安排，是会带来更大的生产力，还是会抑制创新和合作。
Employees, especially younger ones, expect to be able to work remotely, analysts say. And over all the trend is toward greater workplace flexibility. But Bank of America, for example, which had a popular program for working remotely, decided late last year to require employees in certain roles to come back to the office.
分析人士称，员工，特别是年轻一点的员工希望能远程工作。而且现在所有的趋势是工作地点的灵活性越来越大。但是，像美国银行(Bank of America)这样采纳了一个颇受欢迎的远程工作计划的公司，也在去年决定，要求担任特定职务的员工回到办公室来工作。
Studies show that people who work at home are significantly more productive but less innovative, said John Sullivan, a professor of management at San Francisco State University who runs a human resource advisory firm.
经营着一家人力资源顾问公司的旧金山州立大学(San Francisco State University)管理专业教授约翰·沙利文(John Sullivan)称，研究显示，在家工作的员工有着大得多的生产力，但创新能力却较低。
“If you want innovation, then you need interaction,” he said. “If you want productivity, then you want people working from home.”
他说，“如果需要创新，就要互动。如果需要生产力，就让员工在家工作。”
Reflecting these tensions, Yahoo’s policy change has unleashed a storm of criticism from advocates for workplace flexibility who say it is a retrograde approach, particularly for those who care for young children or aging parents outside of work. Their dismay is heightened by the fact that they hoped Ms. Mayer, who became chief executive at 37 while pregnant with her first child, would make the business world more hospitable for working parents.
雅虎的这一政策变化反映了这些对立情况，并引发了来自支持工作地点灵活化的人们的大量批评，他们称，这是一个退步，尤其是对那些要在工作时间外照顾老人和孩子的人来说。而且，他们曾希望今年怀上了第一个孩子的37岁的梅耶尔在出任首席执行官后，能让职场环境变得对有孩子的员工更加友善，为此，他们感觉更加失望。
“The irony is that she has broken the glass ceiling, but seems unwilling for other women to lead a balanced life in which they care for their families and still concentrate on developing their skills and career,” said Ruth Rosen, a professor emerita of women’s history at the University of California.
加利福尼亚大学(University of California)女性史荣誉教授鲁斯·罗森(Ruth Rosen)称，“具有讽刺意味的是，她打破了玻璃天花板，但似乎却不愿意让其他女性过上平衡的生活，在专心发展技能和职业的同时照顾好家庭。”
But not only women take advantage of workplace flexibility policies. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, nearly as many men telecommute.
然而，工作地点灵活化的受益人并非只有女性员工。根据美国劳工统计局(Bureau of Labor Statistics)的数据，远程工作的男性数量几乎与女性一样多。
The bureau says 24 percent of employed Americans report working from home at least some hours each week. And 63 percent of employers said last year that they allowed employees to work remotely, up from 34 percent in 2005, according to a study by the Families and Work Institute, a nonprofit group studying the changing work force.
劳工统计局称，24%的美国员工称自己在家工作，或者至少每周在家工作一段时间。研究工作地点变化的非营利性组织，家庭与工作协会(Families and Work Institute)的一项研究称，有63%的雇主称，去年他们允许员工在家工作，而2005年只有34%的雇主这么做。
Technologies developed in Silicon Valley, from video chat to instant messaging, have made it possible for employees across America to work remotely. Yet like Yahoo, many tech companies believe that working in the same physical space drives innovation.
从视频聊天到即时消息等硅谷研发的技术，已经可以让美国各地的员工远程工作。但是，很多像雅虎这样的技术公司认为，在固定地点上班会驱动创新能力。
A Yahoo spokeswoman, Sara Gorman, declined to comment, saying only that the company did not publicly discuss internal matters.
雅虎一名女发言人萨拉·戈尔曼(Sara Gorman)拒绝对此发表评论，只是称该公司不公开谈论内部事务。
The company’s memo, written by Jackie Reses, director of human resources at Yahoo, and published on All Things D, a blog on digital issues, said: “Some of the best decisions and insights come from hallway and cafeteria discussions, meeting new people and impromptu team meetings. Speed and quality are often sacrificed when we work from home.”
雅虎的备忘录是由人力资源部总监雅姬·雷塞斯(Jackie Reses)起草的，并被发表在了数码科技博客All Things D上面，备忘录称：“一些最好的决定和看法通常来自走廊和餐厅里的交谈、接触新人和即兴团队会议。在家工作往往会牺牲速度和质量。”
In part, the memo looks like an effort to bring a Google spirit to Yahoo, said Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners who covers both companies.
BGC Partners公司的分析师科林·吉利斯(Colin Gillis)表示，从某种程度来说，这份备忘录似乎想把谷歌的精神带到了雅虎。BGC的研究范围包括谷歌和雅虎。
“Marissa’s trying to increase the energy and output and change the culture of the company,” he said. “She brings all the Google lessons to the table, and Google is very focused on having your life revolve around their campus so you can spend a significantly larger chunk of time at work.”
“玛丽莎试图增加公司的能量与产出，并改变公司文化，”他说。“她把谷歌的经验教训都搬了过来，而谷歌非常注意让你的生活绕着他们的办公地点运转，这样你就可以把大量的时间花在工作上。”
Still, Google, as well as Facebook, does allow people to work remotely on a case-by-case basis. But both companies also strongly stress in-person collaboration.
但是，谷歌和Facebook还是会根据具体情况允许员工远程办公。而且这两家公司非常强调人际合作。
Standard Silicon Valley perks like cafeterias with free food, shuttle buses, gyms, ice cream parlors and dry cleaners not only make employees’ lives easier, but keep them on campus during the day and promote contact with other employees. Nearly all tech companies have desks packed tightly together without walls and communal work areas with sofas and beanbags.
像提供免费食物的餐厅、班车、健身馆、冰淇淋店和干洗店等标准的硅谷员工福利，不仅会让员工的生活更加轻松，而且还能保证他们整天都在公司活动，并促进员工之间的交流。在几乎所有的科技公司，办公桌都被紧密地摆放在一起，中间没有隔断墙，它们的公共工作区也都有沙发和豆袋。
Zappos, the e-commerce company owned by Amazon.com, previously allowed some customer service agents to work from home, but now has a rule against working remotely. The company locks all office doors except one so employees are forced to run into more people on the way out, and budgets fewer than 100 square feet per employee, versus the standard 120 square feet or more.
亚马逊(Amazon.com)旗下的电子商务公司Zappos曾允许一些客服代表在家办公，但现在制定了一条反对远程办公的规定。公司把办公室所有的门都锁上，只留下其中一扇，这样员工在出去的时候就会被迫碰见更多人，公司为每名员工安排的空间不足100平方英尺（约合9.3平方米），而标准空间为120平方英尺及以上。
“It’s to maximize those serendipitous encounters,” said Zach Ware, who oversees campus development at the company. “The success of our company is built on our culture, and our perspective is you can’t really do that on e-mail.”
“这是为了将无意间的美好邂逅的机会最大化，”该公司负责工作地点发展的扎克·韦尔(Zach Ware)说。“公司的成功建立在我们的文化之上，而我们认为根本无法通过电子邮件做到这一点。”
Some companies outside the tech industry are also re-evaluating flexible work arrangements. In addition to Bank of America, certain industries that deal with sensitive client information, like health care and finance, have more restrictions on working remotely.
有些科技行业之外的公司也在重新衡量灵活的工作安排。除美国银行以外，医疗和金融等处理敏感客户信息的一些行业对远程办公有更多限制。
Yet more companies embrace flexibility. At Aetna, 47 percent of workers telecommute, up from 9 percent in 2005. The company provides secure Internet and phone connections, locked file cabinets and shredders. During that period, the policy has saved the company $78 million in real estate costs, said Susan Millerick, an Aetna spokeswoman.
然而，也有更多公司对这种灵活性表示欢迎。如今，美国安泰保险金融集团(Aetna)有47%的员工都在远程办公，2005年这个比例仅为9%。公司为员工提供安全的网络和电话连接，带锁的文件柜和碎纸机。公司的女发言人苏珊·米勒里克(Susan Millerick)说，该政策在这段时期为公司在办公场所方面节省了7800万美元（约合4.9亿元人民币）的开支。
At Booz Allen, employees can work at home or sign up to work at a desk in another branch, called “hoteling.” The policy has been vital to employee retention, said Christopher Carlson, a senior associate in human resources at Booz Allen. He works from his home in Florida, where he moved from the Washington, D.C., region to care for his aging parents.
博思艾伦咨询公司(Booz Allen)的员工既可以在家办公，也可以通过登记，在另一家分支机构的办公室办公，这种做法叫做“旅馆式办公”(“hoteling”)。博思艾伦人力资源方面的资深合伙人克里斯托弗·卡尔森(Christopher Carlson)说，这项政策对于留住员工至关重要。为了照顾年迈的父母，他从华盛顿特区搬到了佛罗里达州，然后在家办公。