Yahoo closed on the sale of half of its stake in the Alibaba Group of China, the company said Tuesday, giving it $3 billion to return to its shareholders.
本周二，雅虎(Yahoo)宣布已经出售了所持的中国公司阿里巴巴集团股份的一半，交易所得中，30亿美元将用来返还公司股东。
Some investors had fretted that Yahoo would decide against doling proceeds from the sale to shareholders, after the company’s new chief executive, Marissa Mayer, said last month that she was “reviewing” its business strategy. To some, it suggested that Ms. Mayer, a former Google executive, was more keen to hold onto the money for some other use, including acquisitions.
上个月，雅虎的新任首席执行官玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)表示，自己会“重新考虑”公司的商业策略。一些投资者由此担心雅虎会做出决定，不将出售股权所得返还股东。对有些人来说，梅耶尔的话意味着，这位前谷歌(Google)高管更倾向于留住这笔资金，用来进行收购等其他用途。
But it appears that Ms. Mayer has decided that a payout to investors, including the hedge fund manager and Yahoo board member Daniel S. Loeb, who holds about a 6 percent stake, was in the company’s best interest.
然而，梅耶尔似乎已经决定，把这笔资金用来返还投资者最符合公司的利益。这些投资者包括对冲基金经理、雅虎董事会成员丹尼尔·S·勒布(Daniel S. Loeb)，他手中持有6%的股权。
It has already spent $646 million on stock buybacks since May, in what it called a “down payment” to its stockholders.
5月以来，雅虎已经花了6.46亿美元用于回购本公司的股票，将此称作给股东的“预付金”。
In selling about 20 percent of Alibaba’s stock back to the company, Yahoo will reap about $7.6 billion before taxes. The $3 billion represents about 85 percent of the net cash proceeds from the sale, with Yahoo also receiving preferred shares in its partner.
回售阿里巴巴大约20%的股权后，雅虎将获得税前76亿美元左右的收益。上述的30亿美元几乎占了回售所得现金净额的85%，同时，雅虎还从它的合作伙伴手中获得了一定数额的优先股。
The deal, struck in May, is part of a comprehensive agreement worked out between Alibaba and Yahoo, beginning the transformation of a partnership that has often proved contentious.
这项于5月商定的交易是阿里巴巴与雅虎达成的一项综合性协定的部分内容，也标志着一种时常伴随着冲突的合作伙伴关系开始转型。
The two companies’ alliance began when Yahoo bought a 40 percent stake in Alibaba in late 2005. But as Yahoo began to falter, falling behind newer rivals like Google and then Facebook, its stake in Alibaba leapt in value.
2005年下半年，雅虎收购阿里巴巴40%股权，双方达成战略联盟关系。但随着雅虎业务的衰退，渐渐落后于后起的竞争对手谷歌、Fcacbook等，雅虎在阿里巴巴所持股份的价值迅速跃升。
As of Tuesday afternoon, Yahoo’s remaining stake in Alibaba was valued at about $8.1 billion, representing about 43 percent of the American company’s $18.9 billion market value.
到周二下午为止，雅虎在阿里巴巴的剩余股份价值大约为81亿美元，占该公司189亿美元市场价值的43%。
Over the last few years, both sides have engaged in on-again, off-again talks about the return of that stake.
在过去几年里，双方一直断断续续地探讨回购股权问题。
Under the terms of the agreement, Yahoo will sell half of its stake back now. It will sell an additional 10 percent of Alibaba when the Chinese Internet company files to go public in the next few years, and then divest the remainder sometime after that.
根据协议条款规定，雅虎将会出售现有股权的一半给阿里巴巴。未来阿里巴巴上市时，雅虎将会再回售10%的股权。在那之后的某个时间，雅虎将会出售剩余股份。
For Alibaba, Tuesday’s announcement is the biggest step yet toward its long-held goal of regaining full control of its future. Still privately held, it has taken a number of steps toward becoming publicly traded, including finally striking a deal with Yahoo.
恢复对公司未来的完全控制是阿里巴巴长期以来的目标。周二的公告是到目前为止该公司为实现这个目标迈出的最大一步。目前，阿里巴巴还是一家私人公司，公司已采取了若干措施，谋求上市，包括与雅虎达成回购协议。
Alibaba has spent the last several months crisscrossing the world, raising the requisite financing for the stock buyback from investors like the China Investment Corporation, the Chinese private equity firms Boyu Capital and Citic Capital and the China Development Bank. Existing investors like Silver Lake, DST Global and Temasek also participated.
阿里巴巴在过去几个月里奔走于世界各地，为回购股权筹集所需资金，投资者包括中国投资有限责任公司、私人股本公司博裕资本、中信资本以及中国国家开发银行等。银湖(Silver Lake)、DST全球(DST Global)、淡马锡(Temasek)等现有投资者也参与了此次融资。
And it arranged $2 billion in financing from a number of international banks.
阿里巴巴还从国际银行手中筹得20亿美元资金。
“The completion of this transaction begins a new chapter in our relationship with Yahoo,” Jack Ma, Alibaba’s chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. “We are grateful for Yahoo’s support of our growth over the past seven years, and we are pleased to be able to deliver meaningful returns to our shareholders including Yahoo.”
“这项交易开辟了雅虎和阿里巴巴关系的新篇章，”阿里巴巴主席兼首席执行官马云在一份声明中说道。“我们很感激雅虎在过去七年对我们公司成长的支持，能够为包括雅虎在内的股东带来很好的投资回报，我们很高兴。”