SAN FRANCISCO — Yahoo is moving full speed ahead — in every direction.
旧金山——雅虎正在向着多个方向全速前进。
The Internet pioneer said on Tuesday that it was open to offers for its core assets, which would represent the end of Yahoo as an independent entity. That is a shift from the company’s position as recently as December.
这家互联网先驱周二表示，它愿意考虑出售其核心资产，那将意味着雅虎作为一个独立实体的终结。而就在刚刚过去的十二月，公司还表达了截然不同的立场。
Yahoo is also proceeding with plans to spin out its core assets. That would leave its most valuable property, its holdings in the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, in a different company. Investors like that idea.
此外雅虎还在推进分拆核心资产的计划。这将把该公司最宝贵的资产——中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴(Alibaba)的股份——放到另一家公司中去。投资者喜欢这个想法。
But what Yahoo is really focusing on is revitalizing itself under the guidance of Marissa Mayer, who has been chief executive since the summer of 2012.
但雅虎真正专注的，是在自2012年夏天开始担任首席执行官的玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)的领导下，振兴公司本身。
“At the risk of stating the obvious,” Ms. Mayer said on Tuesday in a conference call with analysts, “our situation is complex.” She added, “It’s going to be very busy.”
“可能这是一句废话了，”梅耶尔周二在与分析师召开的电话会议上表示，“但是我们的情况很复杂。”她还说，“接下来将会非常忙碌。”
Very busy, and very riveting. Whether the intense, glamorous and controversial executive will get more time to fix the company promises to be one of Silicon Valley’s most prominent dramas of 2016. The next move is up to activist investors, who can try to elect a new slate to the Yahoo board.
很忙，也很吸引人。这位热切、迷人和有争议的执行官是否还有时间来重振公司，有望成为硅谷2016年最引人瞩目的的戏码之一。下一步的行动取决于维权投资者，他们可以尝试给雅虎董事会选出新成员。
The company said on Tuesday that one of its directors, Charles Schwab, was resigning.
公司于周二宣布董事查尔斯·施瓦布(Charles Schwab)提出了辞职。
Whether it is sold or survives, Yahoo is getting smaller. It said on Tuesday it would lay off about 15 percent of its 11,000 employees. By the end of the cuts, the company said its work force would be about 42 percent smaller than it was in 2012.
无论是出售还是坚持下去，雅虎都在变得越来越小。周二雅虎表示将对其1.1万名员工进行15%左右的裁员。待裁员结束后，公司表示它的员工人数将比2012年时少约42%。
In addition to being smaller, Ms. Mayer said, the company would be simpler. Yahoo will shed assets, cut expenses and focus on the areas of the company that are growing. When she arrived at Yahoo after working as an executive at Google, she said, “We were sitting on $5 billion in deteriorating revenue with no clear path to growth.”
除了变小外，梅耶尔还表示公司也会变得更简单。雅虎将剥离资产、削减开支并专注于公司取得了增长的领域。从谷歌高管职位离开并到雅虎工作时，她说：“我们坐拥50亿美元资产，收入不断恶化且没有明确的增长途径。”
In essence, she said that Yahoo was no longer deteriorating and was poised for better times — not in 2016, perhaps, but 2017.
她表示，雅虎大体上已不再恶化，并有望迎来更好的时机——可能不是2016年，而是2017年。
Investors seemed not quite sure how to react to the news, which came with the release of Yahoo’s quarterly results. Yahoo shares, which slumped for most of Tuesday as the overall market fell, at first perked up. But in after-hours trading, the stock declined slightly.
这条消息是随着雅虎季度业绩报告一起发布的，投资者似乎不太清楚该如何反应。雅虎的股票在周二一开始有所上涨，但大部分时间因为整体市场萎靡而不断下跌。而在盘后交易中股价略有下降。
“The company is open to all options,” said Mark Mahaney, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets. “There is a distinct possibility that Yahoo as an independent company no longer exists within two years.”
“公司愿意考虑所有选项，”加拿大皇家银行资本市场(RBC Capital Markets)分析师马克·马哈尼(Mark Mahaney)说。“未来两年内，雅虎不再作为一家独立公司而存在的可能性是很大的。”
Starboard Value, a Yahoo investor, accused the board in January of neglecting its responsibilities by ignoring potential offers and dragging its feet in coming up with plans to spin off its core assets.
雅虎投资者斯塔博德价值(Starboard Value)一月份指责董事会渎职，说他们无视潜在的报价并在制定分拆旗下核心资产的计划时拖泥带水。
“Each quarter is worse than the last,” Starboard wrote in a letter, adding that requiring “another year for shareholders to wait while the existing leadership continues to destroy value is not acceptable.”
“每个季度都要比上个季度差，”斯塔博德价值在一封信中写道，此外雅虎还要求“股东们再等待一年，而现有的领导层继续破坏公司价值，这是不能接受的。”
Starboard did not respond to requests for comment on Tuesday. But SpringOwl, a firm whose investors have been publicly critical of Yahoo’s management, were not satisfied with the proposed changes or happy about Ms. Mayer’s attitude.
斯塔博德价值在周二没有回应置评请求。但一直公开批评雅虎管理层的投资者SpringOwl，对公司提出的改革方案以及梅耶尔的态度都不满意。
“I expected defiance, and I expected a convoluted solution,” said Eric Jackson of SpringOwl. “My expectations were exceeded on both counts.”
“我猜到会被无视，我猜到会有迂回的解决方案，”SpringOwl的埃里克·杰克逊(Eric Jackson)说。“但这两方面都比我想象的还严重。”
He noted that Yahoo, despite supposedly being willing to entertain offers, did not mention hiring an investment firm to facilitate the process. “It remains to be seen whether this is a real shift or not,” Mr. Jackson said.
他指出尽管雅虎据称愿意考虑报价，但并没有提及聘请一家投资公司来促成此事。“这是否是一个真正的转变，还有待观察，”杰克逊说。
Still, Yahoo’s language on Tuesday may formally begin what could be months of inquiries from both strategic and financial suitors. Some have been open in expressing their interest: Late last year, Verizon’s chief executive, Lowell C. McAdam, said at a conference that he would look at buying Yahoo if it were put up for sale.
尽管如此，雅虎在周二的措辞可能会正式开启一个持续数月的询价过程，引来各方的战略型和财务型收购意向。有些公司此前就表达过兴趣：去年年底，威瑞森(Verizon)的首席执行官洛厄尔·C·麦克亚当(Lowell C. McAdam)在一次会议上说，如果雅虎被挂牌出售，他会考虑购买。
Others, including private equity firms, have been quietly studying a potential acquisition of Yahoo’s web businesses, according to people briefed on the matter. Some firms, like Silver Lake and TPG, previously weighed bids for a minority stake in Yahoo in 2011 when the company was under pressure from different activist shareholders.
据了解此事的人透露，还有一些公司，包括一些私募股权投资公司，一直在悄悄地研究收购雅虎web业务的可能性。银湖资本(Silver Lake)和TPG等公司此前曾在2011年雅虎承受几家维权股东施压时，考虑过竞逐公司的少数股权。
As Ms. Mayer looks to complete her fourth year as chief executive, Yahoo stubbornly remains a marginally profitable company that is not growing. That was underlined in its fourth-quarter earnings report.
在梅耶尔期待完成她任职首席执行官的第四个年头的同时，雅虎保持着原地不动，依然是一家略有盈利但没有增长的公司。其第四季度盈利报告也体现了这一点。
Revenue came in at $1.273 billion, compared with $1.253 billion in 2014. Operating earnings were 13 cents a share, in line with forecasts. Last year, Yahoo earned 30 cents a share in the quarter.
公司今年的收入为12.73亿美元，而2014年为12.53亿美元。运营收益为每股13美分，符合预期。去年同期雅虎每股的收益为30美分。
Yahoo also recorded a $4.46 billion charge in the quarter for certain businesses, including its blogging site Tumblr, which it acquired for $1 billion.
雅虎某些业务还在此季度记下了44.6亿美元的费用，包括花费10亿美元收购博客网站Tumblr。
Mr. Jackson of SpringOwl said that Tumblr had been Ms. Mayer’s signature acquisition, and that she had increased the number of employees when she began at Yahoo. “She’s saying, ‘We’re going to sharpen our focus,’” he said. “Why didn’t she do that three and a half years ago?”
SpringOwl的杰克逊说，Tumblr是梅耶尔在收购方面的代表作，而当她开始在雅虎工作时还扩充了员工数量。 “她说，‘我们要突出我们的重点’，”他说。“三年半前她为什么不这样做？”
Yahoo’s stock, and Ms. Mayer’s tenure, have been propped up by the company’s wildly successful investment in Alibaba. A plan to spin off the shares to investors faltered when the Internal Revenue Service refused to bless the deal. In December, Yahoo said it would instead spin off its core assets while leaving the Alibaba stake in the original company.
雅虎的股票和梅耶尔的任期，都因为公司在阿里巴巴非常成功的投资而获得了强力支撑。由于美国国税局(Internal Revenue Service)拒绝批准，雅虎将股份分拆给投资者的计划夭折了。雅虎在十二月份表示，它将转而剥离其核心资产，同时将阿里巴巴的股份保留在原公司。
Kenneth Goldman, Yahoo’s chief financial officer, said in the conference call, “I do feel comfortable that we can do it this year.”
雅虎首席财务官肯尼思·戈德曼(Kenneth Goldman)在电话会议上说，“我非常有信心我们今年能够做到这一点。”
Yahoo was a mess when Ms. Mayer arrived from Google. The executive suite was a revolving door. The company’s market share in search was dropping. Yahoo Mail was an also-ran and efforts in mobile were minimal.
当梅耶尔从谷歌加入雅虎时，该公司就是一个烂摊子。首席执行官的轮替犹如走马灯一般。公司在搜索市场的份额不断下降。雅虎邮箱(Yahoo Mail)是一场失败，而该公司在移动市场投入的精力极少。
Ms. Mayer’s hiring drew the world’s attention. But at a moment when Google and Facebook, either of which Yahoo might once have been able to buy, are roaring ahead, there is still no clear sense of what Yahoo should be. Supporters of Ms. Mayer say the company would be in worse shape without her.
梅耶尔的入职引起了全世界的关注。但当雅虎曾经能够收购的谷歌和Facebook高歌猛进时，该公司的前路如何仍然是一片迷茫。梅耶尔的支持者说，如果没有她，公司的情况会更糟糕。
Statistics released this week by eMarketer, a research firm, showed just how much Yahoo was struggling.
市场调查公司eMarketer本周公布的数据，显示出雅虎到底陷入了多大的困境。
In 2015, Yahoo captured $3.37 billion in digital ad revenue worldwide, or 2 percent of the market, eMarketer estimated. That is down from a 2.4 percent share in 2014. Mobile ads were equally dismal.
据eMarketer估计，2015年雅虎在世界范围内实现了33.7亿美元的数字广告收入，占市场份额的2%。相比2014年2.4%的市场份额有所下降。移动广告也同样令人沮丧。
In search, Yahoo is barely holding its own. It will capture 2.1 percent of the $94.07 billion worldwide search market this year, the same share as in 2015, eMarketer said.
在搜索领域，雅虎仅能勉强维持自己的份额。eMarketer表示，在今年940.7亿美元的全球搜索市场中，雅虎占了2.1%，与2015年份额相同。