WASHINGTON
华盛顿
When Marissa Mayer became queen of the Yahoos last summer, she was hailed as a role model for women.
去年夏天，玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)成了雅虎的女王，被誉为女性楷模。
The 37-year-old supergeek with the supermodel looks was the youngest Fortune 500 chief executive. And she was in the third trimester of her first pregnancy. Many women were thrilled at the thought that biases against hiring women who were expecting, or planning to be, might be melting.
当时她37岁，既是超级电脑天才，又有超级模特般的美貌，还是财富500强公司最年轻的首席执行官。而且，彼时她正怀着自己的第一个孩子，怀胎七个月左右。许多女性欢欣鼓舞地想，对雇佣孕期女性或计划怀孕的女性的偏见可能正在消失。
A couple months later, it gave her female fans pause when the Yahoo C.E.O. took a mere two-week maternity pause. She built a nursery next to her office at her own expense, to make working almost straight through easier.
两个月后，她的女性崇拜者们就高兴不起来了，因为这位雅虎首席执行官只休了两周产假。她还自掏腰包，在办公室旁边建了一个育婴室，好让自己可以基本不间断地工作。
The fear that this might set an impossible standard for other women — especially women who had consigned “having it all” to unicorn status — reverberated. Even the German family minister, Kristina Schröder, chimed in: “I regard it with major concern when prominent women give the public impression that maternity leave is something that is not important.”
梅耶尔此举可能为其他女性树立了一个无法企及的标杆，特别是那些已经认为“兼顾家庭和工作”是童话的女性。人们普遍有此担忧。就连德国联邦家庭事务部部长克里斯蒂娜·施罗德(Kristina Schröder)也说，“高职位的女性给公众造成这样一种印象，认为产假并不重要。我对此非常担心。”
Almost two months after her son, Macallister, was born, Mayer irritated some women again when she bubbled at a Fortune event that “the baby’s been way easier than everyone made it out to be.”
梅耶尔生下儿子麦卡利斯特(Macallister)约两个月之后，她再次惹恼了一些女性，因为她在一次《财富》杂志(Fortune)活动中脱口而出，“生养孩子其实很容易，是大家把这事看的太严重了。”
“Putting ‘baby’ and ‘easy’ in the same sentence turns you into one of those mothers we don’t like very much,” Lisa Belkin chided in The Huffington Post.
丽萨·贝尔金(Lisa Belkin)在《赫芬顿邮报》(The Huffington Post)上斥责道：“把‘孩子’和‘容易’这两个词放在同一句话里，你就变成了我们不喜欢的那种妈妈。”
Now Mayer has caused another fem-quake with a decision that has a special significance to working mothers. She has banned Yahoos, as her employees are known, from working at home (which some of us call “working” at home).
现在，梅耶尔又一次引发了女权地震，因为她做出了一个决定，将严重影响需要照顾孩子的职业女性。她禁止了雅虎雇员在家办公。（我们中的一些人把这叫做在家“工作”。）
It flies in the face of tech companies’ success in creating a cloud office rather than a conventional one. Mayer’s friend Sheryl Sandberg of Facebook wrote in her new feminist manifesto, “Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead,” that technology could revolutionize women’s lives by “changing the emphasis on strict office hours since so much work can be conducted online.”
此举直接挑战了技术公司成功打造云办公而非传统办公模式的做法。梅耶尔的朋友、Facebook的谢莉尔‧桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)在自己新的女性主义宣言之作《进取：女性、工作及领导意愿》(Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead)一书中写道，“由于许多工作可以在线进行，严格的上下班时间变得不再那么重要了，”科技能让女性生活发生变革。
She added that “the traditional practice of judging employees by face time rather than results unfortunately persists” when it would be more efficient to focus on results.
她补充道，“不幸的是，根据办公室出勤率而非工作成果评判雇员的传统做法仍然根深蒂固，”尽管专注于成果更加有效率。
Many women were appalled at the Yahoo news, noting that Mayer, with her penthouse atop the San Francisco Four Seasons, her Oscar de la Rentas and her $117 million five-year contract, seems oblivious to the fact that for many of her less-privileged sisters with young children, telecommuting is a lifeline to a manageable life.
雅虎此举让许多女性震惊。她们认为，梅耶尔住在旧金山四季酒店(San Francisco Four Seasons)顶层的豪宅里，穿着奥斯卡·德拉伦塔服装，拿着1.17亿美元(约合7.02亿元人民币)的五年期合同，她似乎忘了，对她那些享受不到这么多优越条件，却有孩子要照顾的姐妹们来说，远程办公是她们的生命线，不然生活就会一团糟。
The dictatorial decree to work “side by side” had some dubbing Mayer not “the Steinem of Silicon Valley” but “the Stalin of Silicon Valley.”
这种大家必须“肩并肩”工作的独裁式命令，使得一些人谑称梅耶尔为“硅谷的斯大林”，而不是“硅谷的史丹能”（Gloria  Steinem，美国女权运动先锋。——译注）。
Mayer and Sandberg are in an elite cocoon and in USA Today, Joanne Bamberger fretted that they are “setting back the cause of working mothers.” She wrote that Sandberg’s exhortation for “women to pull themselves up by the Louboutin straps” is damaging, as is “Mayer’s office-only work proclamation that sends us back to the pre-Internet era of power suits with floppy bow ties.”
梅耶尔和桑德伯格都属于精英阶层。乔安妮·班伯格(Joanne Bamberger)在《今日美国》(USA Today)上愤怒地写道，她们“让需要照顾孩子的职业女性的处境发生了倒退。”她写道，桑德伯格鼓励“女性穿上高跟鞋去战斗”的论调是毁灭性的；正如梅耶尔的办公室宣言，“她宣布，只能在办公室工作，让我们回到了前互联网时代，所有人都必须西装革履的。”
Men accustomed to telecommuting were miffed, too. Richard Branson tweeted: “Give people the freedom of where to work & they will excel.”
习惯远程办公的男性也因此恼火。理查德·布兰森在Twitter上写道，“让人们自由选择在哪里上班，他们才会做的更好。”
While it is true that women have looked to technology as a leveling force in the marketplace, it is also true that tech innovators — even as far back as Bell Labs scientists — have designed their campuses around the management philosophy that intellectual ferment happens when you force smart people to collaborate in person and constantly bounce creative ideas off each other.
尽管女性视技术为一种增进职场平等的力量，但是技术发明者们在设计工作模式时，依据的还是这样的管理理念：只有让聪明人面对面的合作，在接触中不断探讨有创意的点子时，才会产生智力发酵效果。早在当年贝尔实验室的科学家们那个时代，就是这么做的。
Mayer has shown that she is willing to do what it takes, with no coddling. She has a huge challenge in turning around Yahoo — she was the third of three C.E.O.’s at the company in 2012 alone. She had success brainstorming face to face during her years at Google, where she was the 20th employee, the first female engineer and the shepherd of more than 100 products. The Times’s Laura Holson wrote that when meeting with Google subordinates, Mayer came across like a “meticulous art teacher correcting first-semester students.”
梅耶尔已经表明，自己愿意做一切必要的事，毫不心软。她执掌雅虎时，面临巨大挑战：仅在2012年，雅虎就三易首席执行官，她是第三位。她在谷歌工作时，有成功的面对面集体研讨经验。她是谷歌的第20名员工，首位女工程师，并负责过100多种产品的研发。《纽约时报》的罗拉·豪森(Laura Holson)曾写道，在谷歌，梅耶尔跟下属开会时“像一个一丝不苟的美术老师在纠正一年级学生的错误”。
Mayer’s bold move looks retro and politically incorrect, but she may feel the need to reboot the company culture, harness creativity, cut deadwood and discipline slackers before resuming flexibility.
梅耶尔的大胆之举似乎是倒退的，政治不正确的。但是她可能认为，在恢复灵活性之前，需要重整公司文化，发挥员工创造力，裁汰冗员，整顿一下懒散的人。
Coming into the office, Yahoo H.R. chief Jackie Reses wrote in a memo, ensures that “some of the best decisions and insights come from hallway and cafeteria discussions, meeting new people, and impromptu team meetings,” adding tartly that if “Yahoos” “have to stay home for the cable guy, please use your best judgment in the spirit of collaboration.”
雅虎人力资源总监雅姬·雷塞斯(Jackie Reses)在一份备忘录中写道，到办公室上班，“雅虎雇员就可以在餐厅里、过道中讨论问题，可以认识不同的人，可以即兴进行小组会议，由此确保雅虎能做出最佳决定，想出最棒的点子。”她尖刻地补充道，如果“雅虎雇员需要在家等有线电视公司的人，请本着团队合作的精神自己好好判断一下。”
Maybe as Mayer rejuvenates “the grandfather” of Internet companies, as she calls Yahoo, she needs the energy and synergy of a start-up mentality.
梅耶尔把雅虎称作互联网公司中的“老爷爷”。可能她在让这位“老爷爷”重获青春的过程中，需要一点创业公司的那种活力与合力。