ASHBURN, Va. — Silent protesters. A group in AARP shirts. A crying baby. They all ended up having to leave Donald J. Trump’s rally in Virginia on Tuesday, for various reasons.
弗吉尼亚州阿什伯恩 —— 无声抗议者。一群穿着AARP衬衫的人。一个哭闹的婴儿。由于不同的原因，他们最终都不得不离开唐纳德·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)周二在弗吉尼亚的竞选集会。
The silent protesters were escorted out by staff members midway through his speech, and they went silently, with peace signs over their heads. The AARP-clad group left in a similar fashion.
特朗普演说进行一半的时候，工作人员将无声抗议者们押送出场。他们安静地离开了，头上戴着和平标志。穿着AARP衣服的人群也以类似方式离场。
But the crying baby was initially welcome in the event, or so the crowd was led to believe.
不过，那个哭闹的婴儿起初还是受欢迎的，至少人们得到的印象是这样的。
“Don’t worry about that baby. I love babies,” Mr. Trump said. “I hear that baby crying, I like it. What a baby, what a beautiful baby. Don’t worry, don’t worry.”
“别介意那个小孩。我很爱孩子。”特朗普说，“我听到了那个小孩在哭，我喜欢。多好的孩子啊，多么美丽的宝贝。别担心，别担心。”
But the platitudes did nothing to comfort the infant, whose persistent wails seemed to be getting on the candidate’s nerves.
但这些场面话没有对婴儿起到任何安慰作用，持续的大哭似乎惹得这位候选人越来越心烦。
“Actually, I was only kidding. You can get that baby out of here,” Mr. Trump said a few beats later with a slight smirk as laughs and a few gasps escaped from the crowd. “Don’t worry, I think she really believed me that I love having a baby crying while I’m speaking. That’s O.K. People don’t understand. That’s O.K.”
“其实，我刚刚是在开玩笑。你可以把那个小孩弄出去了。”没过多久，特朗普这样说道，微微地哂笑着。人群里传来笑声和惊呼。“别担心，我觉得她真的相信我说喜欢在我说话的时候有个小孩哭闹了。没关系。人们不理解。没关系。”
Later in the rally, another baby cried, daring a rebuke from the candidate. But eventually the child calmed down.
之后，集会上又有一个孩子不怕特朗普的批评，哭了起来。但这个孩子最终安静了下来。
Senator Tim Kaine, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, was swift to pick up on Mr. Trump’s baby episode, taking a jab at him as he brought up the issue of prekindergarten at a rally in Daytona Beach, Fla., on Tuesday.
民主党副总统候选人、参议员蒂姆·凯恩(Tim Kaine)很快注意到了特朗普和小孩的插曲。周二在佛罗里达州代托纳海滩集会上，他谈及托儿所问题时，借此批评特朗普。
“I saw that Donald Trump kicked a crying baby out of an event earlier today,” Mr. Kaine said, “so as I’m thinking about pre-K, sometimes you wonder who the baby is.”
“我看到唐纳德·特朗普今天早些时候把一个哭闹的婴儿赶出去了，”凯恩说，“所以当我在考虑托儿所问题时，有时候会想到底谁才是孩子。”