Dear Employers,
亲爱的雇主们：
You may not realize it, but you have a powerful impact on the culture and the moral ecology of our era. If your human resources bosses decide they want to hire a certain sort of person, then young people begin turning themselves into that sort of person.
可能你们没有意识到，你们对我们这个时代的文化和道德生态有着强大的影响力。如果你的人力资源主管决定雇佣某个类型的人，那么年轻人就会开始把自己塑造成那样。
Therefore, I’m asking you to think about the following principles, this Employer’s Creed. If you follow these principles in your hiring practices, you’ll be sending a signal about what sort of person gets ahead. You may correct some of the perversities at the upper reaches of our meritocracy. You may even help cultivate deeper, fuller human beings.
因此，我请求你们考虑以下原则，也就是这份“雇主信条”。如果在招聘环节里贯彻这些原则，你就释放了一种信号，告诉人们什么类型的人会受青睐。你也许就能矫正我们的英才管理体系上层的一些不妥之处。你甚至还有希望培育出一种更深邃、更完整的人。
Bias hiring decisions against perfectionists. If you work in a white-collar sector that attracts highly educated job applicants, you’ve probably been flooded with résumés from people who are not so much human beings as perfect avatars of success. They got 3.8 grade-point averages in high school and college. They served in the cliché leadership positions on campus. They got all the perfect consultant/investment bank internships. During off-hours they distributed bed nets in Zambia and dug wells in Peru.
倾向于不聘用过分完美的人。如果你在白领行业，能吸引到受过高等教育的应聘者，那么你可能会被这种人的简历淹没：他们看上去不太像个人，更像成功的一种完美化身。他们在高中和大学得到3.8的平均绩点，在校园里担任过俗套的领导职务。他们在咨询公司、投资银行有完美的实习经历，闲暇之余他们会到赞比亚分发蚊帐、到秘鲁挖井。
When you read these résumés, you have two thoughts. First, this applicant is awesome. Second, there’s something completely flavorless here. This person has followed the cookie-cutter formula for what it means to be successful and you actually have no clue what the person is really like except for a high talent for social conformity. Either they have no desire to chart out an original life course or lack the courage to do so. Shy away from such people.
看到这些简历时，你会有两个念头。其一，这位应聘者很棒；其二，此人索然无味。这个人根本是用模具烘焙出来的饼干，照着成功的标准行事，除了在顺从社会方面显露出了极高的天赋，你其实对他究竟是怎样一个人毫无概念。他们要么是没有意愿活出独特的人生，要么是没有那个勇气。避开这些人。
Bias hiring decisions toward dualists. The people you want to hire should have achieved some measure of conventional success, but they should have also engaged in some desperate lark that made no sense from a career or social status perspective. Maybe a person left a successful banking job to rescue the family dry-cleaning business in Akron. Maybe another had great grades at a fancy East Coast prep school but went off to a Christian college because she wanted a place to explore her values. These peoples have done at least one Deeply Unfashionable Thing. Such people have intrinsic motivation, native curiosity and social courage.
倾向于聘用二元的人。你想雇佣的人应该已经得到了某些传统意义上的成就，但是他们还应该孤注一掷，去追求一些胡闹的目标，这些目标从事业或社会地位的角度看是毫无意义的。也许有人会放弃了春风得意的银行工作，回到阿克隆去拯救家族的干洗店生意。也许还有人在东海岸某个高尚预科学校取得优异成绩，但最后去了一间基督教大学，因为她想找一个能够探索她的价值的地方。这些人都至少做了一件“极度不合时宜的事”。这样的人有内在的积极性、与生俱来的好奇心和面对社会的勇气。
Bias toward truth-tellers. I recently ran into a fellow who hires a lot of people. He said he asks the following question during each interview. “Could you describe a time when you told the truth and it hurt you?” If the interviewee can’t immediately come up with an episode, there may be a problem here.
偏好说真话的人。最近我偶遇了一位经常招聘的人。他说他每一次面试都会问这样一个问题。“能不能说一个你讲了真话却被其所累的事例？”如果应聘者无法当即给出一个事件，可能就有问题了。
Don’t mindlessly favor people with high G.P.A.s. Students who get straight As have an ability to prudentially master their passions so they can achieve proficiency across a range of subjects. But you probably want employees who are relentlessly dedicated to one subject. In school, those people often got As in subjects they were passionate about but got Bs in subjects that did not arouse their imagination.
不要不假思索地偏好平均绩点很高的人。一个拿到全优的学生有能力谨慎地管束住自己的激情，从而实现对众多不同科目的精通。但你需要的雇员恐怕应该是那种对某一科目乐此不疲的。这种人念书的时候经常在自己有热情的科目上拿到A，但那些无法激发他们想象力的科目只能拿到B。
Reward the ripening virtues, not the blooming virtues. Some virtues bloom forth with youth: being intelligent, energetic, curious and pleasant. Some virtues only ripen over time: other-centeredness, having a sense for how events will flow, being able to discern what’s right in the absence of external affirmation. These virtues usually come with experience, after a person has taken time off to raise children, been fired or learned to cope with having a cruel boss. The blooming virtues are great if you are hiring thousands of consultants to churn out reports. For most other jobs, you want the ripening ones, too.
要珍视成熟的优点，而不是意气风发的优点。有的优点在青年时期就已经绽放：聪明、精力充沛、好奇、愉快。有的优点必须慢慢成熟：利他之心，对事态流变的感受力，能够在缺乏外部肯定的情况下分辨是非。这些优点通常是因经验而生的，在一个人停下工作去抚养子女时，在被解雇或学习适应一个恶毒老板时，才能得到增进。如果你现在要雇几千个咨询师去赶制一大批报告，那意气风发的优点很好。除此之外的大多数工作需要你同时去寻找一些成熟的优点。
Reward those who have come by way of sorrow. Job seekers are told to present one linear narrative to the world, one that can easily be read and digested as a series of clean conquests. But if you are stuck in an airport bar with a colleague after a horrible business trip, would you really want to have a drink with a person like that? No, you’d want a real human being, someone who’d experienced setback, suffering and recovery. You’d want someone with obvious holes in his résumé, who has learned the lessons that only suffering teaches, and who got back on track.
要珍视那些经历过伤痛的人。求职者得到的要求是对这个世界讲述一个线性的故事，这个故事要易于阅读和消化，包含一系列攻城掠地的经历。但当你在结束了一场可怕的差旅之后，被迫和一位同事坐在机场的酒吧哪也去不了时，你真的乐意跟这样一个人聊天吗？你肯定是想要个活生生的人，对吧，一个有挫折、苦痛和愈合经历的人。你会希望这个人的简历里有明显的缺陷，他得到过只有苦痛才能带来的教训，并从那苦痛中挺了过来。
Reward cover letter rebels. Job seeking is the second greatest arena of social pretense in modern life — after dating. But some people choose not to spin and exaggerate. They choose not to make each occasion seem more impressive than it really was. You want people who are radically straight, even with superiors.
要珍视叛逆的求职者。找工作是现代生活中第二大社交伪装领域，仅次于约会。但有的人选择不粉饰、不夸大。他们选择不把每一个瞬间都吹得神乎其神。你需要那些哪怕面对上司都极其直接的人。
You could argue that you don’t actually want rich, full personalities for your company. You just want achievement drones who can perform specific tasks. I doubt that’s in your company’s long-term interests. But if you fear leaping out in this way, at least think of the effect you’re having on the deeper sensibilities of the next generation, the kind of souls you are incentivizing and thus fashioning, the legacy you will leave behind.
也许你会说，你的公司不需要丰富、完整的人格，你需要的只是一些一心只求成就的工作狂，可以完成某个特定任务。我觉得这样做可能并不符合公司的长远利益。但是，如果你是害怕自己的行事作风太过出格，至少想想你这样做对下一代产生的深层次情感影响，你在鼓舞怎样的灵魂和风气，你的所作所为会对后世产生怎样的影响。