Chevron said on Tuesday that it would spend 500 million pounds, or nearly $770 million, on its planned Rosebank and Alder oil and gas development projects in British waters.
雪佛龙公司(Chevron)周二称，将投入5亿英镑（约合46.19亿元人民币）用于其在不列颠海域内的罗斯班克(Rosebank)和阿尔德(Alder)石油和天然气开发项目计划。
Rosebank, an oil and natural gas field, is on what is becoming one of Europe’s key fossil-fuels frontier areas, the margins of the Atlantic Ocean west of the Shetland Islands off Scotland. Alder, holding gas, is in the central North Sea, which is also attracting major new investments. Northeast Scotland has evolved into the hub of Britain’s and in some respects Europe’s oil industry, with hundreds of suppliers of high-tech services and undersea gear.
罗斯班克是一个石油和天然气田，位于正成为欧洲主要化石燃料前沿地带的苏格兰设德兰群岛以西的大西洋边缘。阿尔德是一个天然气田，位于北海中部，也正在吸引着大量新的投资。东北苏格兰已成为不列颠石油行业，或者在某些方面上欧洲石油行业的中心，这里聚集着几百家高技术服务公司和水下设备供应商。
Chevron, based in San Ramon, Calif., has been studying Rosebank since it discovered oil there in 2004. A final decision on whether to develop the field is not expected until next year. But Chevron and its partners, including Statoil of Norway, have already spent hundreds of millions of pounds on early drilling and design work, Stuart Klein, the project’s head, said in an interview in the company’s European headquarters in Aberdeen.
总部位于加州圣拉蒙的雪佛龙公司自从2004年罗斯班克发现石油之后就一直对此地进行研究。是否要在这里进行开采的最终决定预计要到明年才会做出。但是，负责这一项目的斯图尔特·克莱因(Stuart Klein)在公司位于阿伯丁的欧洲总部接受采访时说，雪佛龙及其包括挪威国家石油公司(Statoil)在内的合作伙伴，已经为早期钻探和设计工作投入了几亿英镑。
The Chevron announcement comes as oil companies are ramping up spending in the North Sea and west of the Shetlands.
雪佛龙公司宣布这一消息时，正是石油公司纷纷在北海和设德兰群岛以西加大投资力度之际。
Lindsay Wexelstein, an analyst at the consultancy Wood Mackenzie in Edinburgh, estimates that the industry will spend $65 billion over the next five years, the most in real terms since the 1970s, including $18 billion west of the Shetlands. She said that Rosebank, if it proceeded, was likely to require the largest amount of capital during the coming period.
位于爱丁堡的伍德马肯兹咨询公司(Wood Mackenzie)分析师林赛·韦克赛尔斯坦恩(Lindsay Wexelstein)预计石油行业将在未来5年内在该地区投入650亿美元，这是自20世纪70年代以按实质价格计算的最大一笔投资，其中有180亿美元将投在设德兰群岛以西。她说，如果罗斯班克项目得以实施的话，在未来几年内其所需的投资将是最大的一笔。
Oil and Gas UK, a trade group, forecasts oil industry investment in Britain at 14 billion pounds this year, about triple what it was five years ago. As a result, production, which has fallen sharply in recent year to about 1.5 million barrels per day, is likely to begin rising, the group says.
行业组织联合王国石油天然气协会(Oil and Gas UK)预计，今年石油行业在英国的投资将达到140亿英镑，将近5年前投资额的三倍。该协会称，其结果是，最近几年来急剧下降的石油产量很可能会开始上升，近年的石油产量是每天150万桶。
Rosebank has required years of work because of the field’s tricky geology. The oil is contained in layers of sandstone sandwiched between volcanic basalt rock, which is difficult to penetrate with seismic imaging technology that the industry uses. Mr. Klein said that to obtain better images of the oil and gas, Chevron put 750 sensors on the sea bottom in 2010 and 2011 and then spent two years analyzing the resulting data. “There is less uncertainty than three years ago,” he said.
由于罗斯班克的地质条件很复杂，研究如何开发它已经花费了几年的时间。这里的石油蕴含在砂岩层内，而这些砂岩层夹在火山运动形成的玄武岩层之间，石油行业用的地震成像技术很难穿透玄武岩。克莱因说，为了得到更清晰的石油和天然气储量的图像，雪佛龙公司从2010年到2011年间在海底安放了750个传感器，之后又用两年时间分析所得到的数据。他说，“和三年前相比，现在的不确定因素少了很多。”
Mr. Klein said that Rosebank would probably have 240 million barrels of recoverable oil and gas, making it a large field, though not a giant. Producing the oil will cost billions of dollars.
克莱因说，罗斯班克的可采油气储量大概是2.4亿桶，算是个大型油气田，但还够不上巨型。开采这里的石油将需要耗资数十亿美元。
Chevron executives in Aberdeen said that recent changes in the British tax system, giving allowances of up to 3 billion pounds for deepwater projects in the area, had made the project viable in Chevron’s portfolio, assuming that oil fields earn $25 per barrel or more. Rosebank, which is in 1,100 meters, or 3,600 feet, of water and is being designed to survive waves of 30 meters, is believed to be the only project that would qualify for those allowances so far.
雪佛龙公司在阿伯丁的高管说，最近不列颠税制的改变，使公司资产组合中的这个项目变得可行，假设这些油田能挣到每桶25美元或更高的利润。税制改变给该地区深水项目投资提供最多30亿英镑的补贴。罗斯班克位于1100米深的水下，其设计能抵挡30米高的浪，它被认为是目前唯一能符合补贴要求的项目。
If Rosebank and the Alder gas field proceed, Chevron — which has 1,000 people in Aberdeen working in a variety of areas, including shale gas in Eastern Europe — will be on the leading edge of spending in the North Sea and its environs.
如果罗斯班克和阿尔德天然气田项目能得以实施，雪佛龙公司将会成为在北海及其周边地区投资的领先者，公司现有1000名员工在阿伯丁从事多个领域的工作，包括东欧的页岩天然气项目。
The company is also a 19.6 percent nonoperating partner on Clair, Europe’s largest oil field, which is being gradually developed by a group led by BP. Clair is in the same area as Rosebank but in much shallower water. The three projects represent “the future of Chevron Europe,” Mr. Klein said.
该公司还持有欧洲最大油田克莱尔油田(Clair)19.6%的股份，是其非经营伙伴，克莱尔正在由BP公司牵头的一群公司在慢慢地开发。克莱尔与罗斯班克位于同一地区，但其所在的水域要浅得多。克莱因说，这三个项目代表着“雪佛龙欧洲的未来”。