An Indonesian court convicted a local employee of the American energy company Chevron of corruption on Wednesday in a case that has escalated uncertainties for foreign investors in the nation.
本周三，印尼一家法院裁决美国能源公司雪佛龙(Chevron)的一名印尼雇员犯有贪污罪。这桩案件增加了外国公司在印尼投资的不确定性。
In a 2-to-1 decision, a three-judge panel at an anticorruption court here sentenced Kukuh Kertasafari, 36, an environmental manager for Chevron Pacific Indonesia, to two years in prison for abuse of authority in connection with a soil cleanup program. Two other employees are to receive verdicts this week.
在本案中，这家反腐败法院的三人合议庭以两票赞成、一票反对的结果，判处36岁的库卡·科塔萨法利(Kukuh Kertasafari)两年徒刑；他是雪佛龙太平洋印尼公司(Chevron Pacific Indonesia)的一名环境经理，获刑原因是在一个土壤清理项目中滥用权力。该公司另外两名雇员将于本周内判决。
The case centers on a so-called bioremediation program at Chevron’s drilling facilities on the island of Sumatra.
该案案情集中在雪佛龙公司在苏门答腊岛的钻井设施上开展的一个所谓生物修复项目上。
Chevron Pacific Indonesia appointed two Indonesian contractors, Green Planet and Sumigita, to do the work, which entails removing or neutralizing contaminants in soil or water. Prosecutors said the companies were not qualified and did not have the proper permits, and that the cleanup was unnecessary because the area was not sufficiently contaminated.
雪佛龙太平洋印尼公司把这个项目委托给了绿色星球(Green Planet)和Sumigita这两家印尼承包商，让它们清理或中和土壤或水中的污染物。检察官说，这两家公司不具备相关资质，也没有获得相应的许可证，而且这个项目是多此一举，因为该地区的污染没有严重到需要清理的程度。
In May, the anti-corruption court convicted the two directors of Green Planet and Sumigita of corruption and sentenced them to five and six years in prison, respectively.
今年5月，这家反腐败法院裁决绿色星球和Sumigita的两名主管有罪，他们分别被判处了五年和六年徒刑。
During the Chevron trial, prosecutors contended that the employees had violated Indonesian corruption laws by prompting the state to incur a $9.9 million loss. The loss is tied to a reimbursement that the state paid for the cleanup as part of its contract with Chevron.
在雪佛龙案件审理期间，检察官称这些雇员违反了印尼的反腐败法律，给国家造成了990万美元的损失，因为政府在跟雪佛龙公司签订合同时约定会报销这笔清理费用。
Defense lawyers for Chevron Pacific Indonesia rejected the prosecution’s claims because Chevron did not receive reimbursement for the project. The defense also said that its scientific analysis had confirmed that the soil was sufficiently contaminated to warrant bioremediation.
雪佛龙太平洋印尼公司的辩护律师否认了这一指控，因为雪佛龙公司没有收到项目报销的费用。辩护方还表示，对土壤污染程度的科学分析显示，生物修复是有必要的。
“No actual evidence of any state loss or any illegal activity by Chevron Pacific Indonesia employees has been presented in court,” the company said in a statement. “Our thoughts are with our colleague and his family during this difficult time.”
“法庭上没有任何真凭实据可以证明政府遭受了损失，也不能证明雪佛龙太平洋印尼公司的雇员有任何违法行为，”该公司在一份声明中说。“在这个困难时期，我们站在这些同事和他们的家人一边。”
The employee plans to appeal the verdict.
判决之后，这名员工打算提起上诉。
The criminal prosecution of local Chevron employees has sent a wave of fear through Indonesia’s oil and natural gas sector, which is increasingly reliant on the technical expertise and investment of multinational energy companies.
雪佛龙公司印尼员工遭遇的这起刑事起诉，给印尼的石油和天然气产业带来了一股寒意，这些领域对跨国能源公司技术专长和投资的依赖正在变得日益严重。
Oil and gas account for about 8 percent of the country’s gross domestic product and 28 percent of state budget revenue, according to the Indonesian Petroleum Association. But production has dropped steadily during the last decade.
印尼石油协会(Indonesian Petroleum Association)的资料显示，石油和天然气约占国内生产总值的8%、政府预算收入的28%。但过去十年中，石油和天然气的产量出现了持续下降。
“There is a need to find more reserves, otherwise production will continue to decline,” said Dipnala Tamzil, the executive director of the petroleum association. “There’s a lot of capital needed, and not many companies can afford it. So criminalization is a very worrying trend.”
“我们必须找到更多的石油和天然气储备，否则产量还会继续下滑。”石油协会执行董事迪普纳拉·丹希尔(Dipnala Tamzil)说：“这需要大量资金，没有多少企业负担得起。因此，刑事定罪这种趋势让人非常担心。”
The Chevron case drew an unusual amount of attention in Indonesia, partly because multiple Indonesian government agencies, as well as the country’s independent Supreme Audit Agency, had gone on record saying that no laws were broken.
雪佛龙案件在印尼引起了不同寻常的关注，部分原因在于，印尼多个政府机构以及该国独立的最高审计机构都已经正式表示，这个案件不涉及任何违法行为。
The National Commission on Human Rights also accused prosecutors of professional misconduct and violating the defendants’ human rights in a scathing 400-page investigation report submitted in May to President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. The report detailed how Chevron employees had been arrested last year and held for 62 days without being informed of the charges against them.
5月，印尼人权委员会(National Commission on Human Rights)向苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono) 总统提交了一份400页长的、措辞严厉的调查报告，指责检察官们在工作中存在不当行为，侵犯了被告的人权。该报告详细介绍了雪佛龙公司这些员工如何在没有被告知遭受何种指控的情况下，被逮捕并关押了62天。
One official with the Indonesian Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because, as a regulator, he was not allowed to speak publicly about the case, questioned why one of the defendants, who had joined Chevron Pacific Indonesia only six months before the official investigation began, was being prosecuted for a project from seven years earlier.
印尼能源和矿产资源部(Indonesian Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources)的一名官员匿名表示了质疑：一名被告在正式调查开始前六个月才进入雪佛龙太平洋印尼公司，为什么会因为七年之前的项目被起诉？这名官员匿名发表意见是因为他作为监管者，不能公开谈论该案件。
During the trial, defense lawyers called into question the credibility of the state’s expert witness on bioremediation. The witness worked for a company that had failed to win the deal to conduct the cleanup project for Chevron.
在庭审时，辩护律师对控方的专家证人在生物修复方面的可信度也提出了质疑。这名证人曾为一家参与雪佛龙清理项目竞标但未能成功的公司工作。
The prosecutors had “a clear conflict of interest with their witness,” said T. Mulya Lubis, a defense lawyer for Chevron Pacific Indonesia. “If there was any violating, it should be a civil case that would be dealt with through mediation and arbitration, not criminalization.”
检察官的“证人跟该案存在明显的利益冲突”，雪佛龙太平洋印尼公司的辩护律师T·马尔雅·卢比斯(T. Mulya Lubis)说。“即便该案存在任何违法行为，它也应该是一个民事案件，应该通过调解和仲裁来处理，而不是进行刑事定罪。”