For some time, psychologists and other researchers have been studying how personality traits affect health and health-related choices. Not surprisingly, they have found that people blessed with innate conscientiousness, meaning that they are organized and predictable, typically eat better and live longer than people who are disorderly. They also tend to have immaculate offices.
一段时期以来，心理学家和其他研究人员一直在研究性格特质对人们健康和健康相关选择的影响。不出意料的是，他们发现天性勤勉，也就是有条不紊、办事靠谱的人，比起不那么有规律的人，通常吃得更健康、更长寿。他们的办公室也往往更整洁。
What has been less clear is whether neat environments can produce good habits even in those who aren’t necessarily innately conscientious. To find out, researchers at the University of Minnesota conducted a series of experiments, the results of which were published online last month in Psychological Science. In the first experiment, they randomly assigned a group of college-age students to spend time in adjacent office spaces, one of which was exquisitely neat, the other wildly cluttered with papers and other work-related detritus. The students spent their time filling out questionnaires unrelated to the study. After 10 minutes, they were told they could leave and were offered an apple or a chocolate bar as they exited. Those students who sat in the orderly office were twice as likely to choose the apple than those who sat amid the mess.
但人们不太了解，整洁的环境是否会令那些天性并不勤勉的人也能产生良好的习惯。为了解这个问题，明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)的研究人员设计了一系列试验，结果在线发表于8月的《心理科学》(Psychological Science)杂志上。在第一项试验中，他们随机安排一组大学生进入邻近的办公室里，其中一间办公室极其洁净，而另一间堆满了纸张和其他办公用品。学生们完成了与研究无关的问卷。10分钟后，研究者通知他们可以离开，并在他们出门时提供了一个苹果或一块巧克力供其选择。相比坐在一团糟的办公室的学生，那些坐在整洁的办公室的学生选择苹果的可能性高了一倍。
A second experiment, however, found that working in chaos has its advantages, too. In this one, college students were placed in a messy or a neat office and asked to dream up new uses for Ping-Pong balls. Those in messy spaces generated ideas that were significantly more creative, according to two independent judges, than those plugging away in offices where stacks of papers and other objects were neatly aligned.
不过，第二项试验则发现，在乱糟糟的环境里工作也有它的好处。试验中，大学生们被分配进或混乱或整齐的办公室里，接着按要求想象乒乓球的新用途。根据两位独立仲裁人的判断，比起坐在纸张和其他用品码放得整整齐齐的办公室里的大学生，那些身处凌乱环境的学生产生的想法要明显更有创造力。
The results were something of a surprise, says Kathleen D. Vohs, a behavioral scientist at the University of Minnesota and the leader of the study. Few previous studies found much virtue in disarray. The broken-windows theory, proposed decades ago, posits that even slight disorder and neglect can encourage nonchalance, poor discipline and nihilism. Chaos begets chaos.
明尼苏达大学的行为科学家、本次研究的领导者凯瑟琳·沃斯(Kathleen D. Vohs)说，研究结果多少有点出人意料。此前几乎没有研究发现混乱也有好处。几十年前提出的破窗理论认为，哪怕仅仅是些微的混乱与疏忽也会引发无动于衷、缺乏自律和虚无主义。混乱催生混乱。
But in the study by Dr. Vohs, disordered offices encouraged originality and a search for novelty. In the final portion of the study, adults were given the choice of adding a health “boost” to their lunchtime smoothie that was labeled either “new” or “classic.” The volunteers in the messy space were far more likely to choose the new one; those in the tidy office generally opted for the classic version.
但是，在沃斯博士的研究中，杂乱的办公室可以激发创造力与对新奇事物的追求。在研究的最后一部分，研究者让参试的成年人给他们午餐的奶昔里加点健康“补给剂”，他们需要从贴着“新鲜”或“传统”标签的选项中进行选择。坐在杂乱环境中的志愿者更有可能选择新鲜的补给剂，而坐在整洁办公室的人则普遍选择了传统的食品。
“Disorderly environments seem to inspire breaking free of tradition,” Dr. Vohs and her co-authors conclude in the study, “which can produce fresh insights.”
“零乱的环境看来能激励人们打破传统，”沃斯和她的合作者提出了这样的研究结论：“而这将产生新鲜的洞见。”
The implications of these findings are also practical. “My advice would be, if you need to think outside the box” for a future project, Dr. Vohs says, then let the clutter rise and unfetter your imagination. But if your primary goal is to eat well or to go to the gym, pick up around your office first. By doing this, the naturally messy can acquire some of the discipline of the conscientious.
上述发现也具有实际意义。沃斯博士说，“我的建议是，如果为了某个未来的项目，你想要跳出常规”，那么就把办公室弄得乱一点，让你的想象力自由驰骋。可是，如果你的首要目标是吃得健康，或者坚持去健身房，那么，你得先整理好办公室。如此一来，你天性中的凌乱不羁就将获得责任心的某些约束。