JAKARTA, Indonesia — The AirAsia plane that crashed into the Java Sea last month had climbed at excessive speeds to an unusually high altitude before plunging and disappearing from radar, Indonesia’s top transportation official said Tuesday.
印度尼西亚雅加达——印度尼西亚负责交通事务的最高官员周二表示，亚洲航空公司(AirAsia)上月坠入爪哇海的那架飞机，在骤然坠落并从雷达上消失前，曾以过高的速度爬升至异乎寻常的高度。
Radar data showed that the Airbus A320-200 was climbing at about 6,000 feet a minute before it crashed last month, killing all 162 people aboard, Ignasius Jonan, the minister of transportation, told a parliamentary commission.
印尼交通部长伊格纳修斯·佐南(Ignasius Jonan)对一个议会委员会表示，雷达数据显示，这架空客(Airbus)A320–200飞机上月坠机前，曾以大约每分钟6000英尺（约合每小时110公里）的速度爬升。坠机事件导致机上162人全部遇难。
“It is not normal to climb like that; it’s very rare for commercial planes, which normally climb just 1,000 to 2,000 feet per minute,” he told lawmakers, The Associated Press reported. “It can only be done by a fighter jet.”
美联社(The Associated Press)报道称，佐南告诉议员们，“像那样爬升是不正常的，对于商业航班来说非常罕见，它们通常的爬升速度是每分钟1000到2000英尺。只有战斗机能那么做。”
The plane, Flight 8501, crashed on Dec. 28 less than an hour after taking off from the Indonesian city of Surabaya, bound for Singapore. As of Tuesday, forensic experts had identified 45 of 51 victims whose bodies, or body parts, had been recovered, officials said.
去年12月28日，亚航飞往新加坡的QZ8501航班，在从印尼泗水起飞不到一个小时后坠机。官员称截至周二，已找到51名遇难者的遗体或身体部位，法医已确定了其中45人的身份。
Dozens of relatives of those aboard the flight wait daily in a crisis center at the East Java provincial police headquarters in Surabaya, more than three weeks after the crash.
坠机事件已过去了三周多。在位于泗水的东爪哇省警察总部的一个危机应对中心，机上人员的几十名亲属每天都在等候。
Shortly before air traffic controllers lost contact with Flight 8501, the plane’s pilots had requested permission to increase the altitude to 38,000 feet. The plane disappeared from radar around four minutes later, Indonesian transportation officials have said.
空管人员与QZ8501航班失去联系前不久，飞机的飞行员请求获准将高度升至3.8万英尺。印尼负责交通事务的官员称，大约四分钟后，飞机就从雷达上消失了。
Indonesian Navy divers last week separately recovered the aircraft’s cockpit voice and data recorders amid debris and thick mud at a depth of around 100 feet in the Java Sea off the southern coast of Borneo Island.
上周，在婆罗洲南岸附近的爪哇海上，印尼海军的潜水员分别在水下大约100英尺深处的残骸和厚泥浆中，找到了失事飞机的驾驶舱语音和数据记录仪。
The cause of the crash remains unclear, although weather has been cited as a probable factor.
造成坠机的原因依然不明，不过天气被认为可能是因素之一。
Indonesia’s National Transportation Safety Committee, which is evaluating data from the plane’s black boxes, is expected to issue a preliminary report in the coming days.
印尼国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Committee)正在评估从飞机黑匣子中获得的数据，预计会在未来几天发布一份初步报告。