The online ads sound alluring: Come to the sunny south of China and forget the smog of Beijing, they say. Enjoy the laid-back lifestyle; abandon unhealthy Beijing!
网上的广告听上去非常吸引人：来阳光明媚的南方吧，忘掉北京的雾霾。尽享悠闲的生活方式，放弃不健康的北京。
As Beijing residents endured heavy smog on Tuesday, the last day of a four-day red alert for hazardous air pollution, companies in southern China have been advertising the attractions of their sun-filled, tree-lined cities, all in a bid to lure smart, educated and ambitious employees from the north.
北京发布了为期四天的有害空气污染红色预警，周二是最后一天。就在北京的民众仍在忍受浓重的雾霾之际，南方的公司正在宣传它们那些阳光灿烂、绿树成荫的城市的诱人之处。这一切都是为了努力吸引身在北方的那些聪明、受过教育、有抱负的员工。
Amy Li, a human resources adviser at Umeox, a technology company in Shenzhen that makes smartwatches, said the clean air at the technology park where her firm is was a big bonus in her recruiting drive.
艾米·李(Amy Li)是生产智能手表的深圳科技公司优美通讯的人力资源顾问。她说，公司所在科技园的清新空气，是其招聘活动中的一大优势。
“You’ll never need to wear a mask here,” Ms. Li said. “Our company is surrounded by green plants, and everything is clean and neat.”
“在这里，你永远都不用戴口罩，”她说。“我们公司四面都环绕着绿色植物，一切都干净整洁。”
No one is suggesting that the air in Beijing is the catalyst for a major brain drain from capital to southern cities — at least not yet. Nor does there seem to be a migration of older Beijing residents who want to swap the smog for sunshine in the way that American retirees flock to Florida.
没人说空气是促使大批人才从首都北京流向南方城市的原因，至少现在还没有。似乎也没有上了年纪的人像美国的退休人士蜂拥至佛罗里达州那样，为了逃离雾霾和享受阳光而从北京迁徙到其他地方。
But as patience frays over the inconvenience of red alerts, and worries mount over the risks to long-term well-being, leaving can seem like an enticing solution. On Tuesday afternoon, the air quality index in Beijing was 506, according to the United States Embassy, 20 times the safe limit set by the World Health Organization.
但随着对红色预警带来的不便日渐失去耐心，以及对长期福祉的担忧加剧，离开可能看上去是一个颇具吸引力的解决办法。周二下午，从美国大使馆的数据来看，北京的空气质量指数是506，世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)规定的安全上限的20倍。
On Tuesday, the restrictive measures of Beijing’s second red alert this month were in effect: Schools were closed, and cars were only allowed to drive on alternate days, depending on their license plate numbers. Hundreds of factories were ordered to suspend production.
周二当天，北京第二个红色预警的限制措施正在实施中：学校停课，机动车按单双号限行。成百上千家工厂被勒令停产。
A real estate company in Shenzhen, JJS Home, needs new sales people and is pitching the clean sea air as a big attraction for prospective employees from the polluted north.
深圳的房地产公司家家顺需要招聘新的销售人员。该公司正在把清新的沿海空气作为一大优势，面向来自受污染的北方的潜在员工做宣传。
“It’s obvious that young people pay more attention to their health than their parents’ generation,” said Chen Jie, a human resources manager at JJS Home. “It’s sunny all the time here in the middle of winter. We wore T-shirts last weekend, while Beijing felt so gloomy.”
“年轻人明显比他们父母那一代更重视健康，”家家顺的人力资源经理陈杰（音）说。“这里隆冬时节也一直阳光明媚。我们上周末穿的是T恤，而北京给人感觉很阴郁。”
So far, an online ad on a recruiting website has brought modest results, Mr. Chen said. Of the roughly 20 new hires who have joined the company each week over the last few months, only a handful have come from Beijing. Partly, he said, that was because people from nearby provinces could more easily move to Shenzhen.
陈杰说，迄今为止，发布在一家招聘网站上的网络招聘简章收效甚微。过去几个月，每周有大约20个新成员加入该公司，其中只有少数几个来自北京。他说，这在一定程度上是因为周边省份的人更方便来深圳。
But ads trumpeting jobs in the sunny south freely tap into feelings of winter blues and claustrophobia in Beijing.
但宣传在阳光明媚的南方工作的广告，无所顾忌地利用了人们在北京的冬天感受到的郁闷和幽闭恐惧。
“I feel so depressed when I open the window everyday and can’t even see the building across the street because of all the smog,” said Ya Hanxiang, 24, a magazine editor. “Why do I have to live here? I feel like I’m living in a basement.”
“每天打开窗户，因为雾霾甚至都看不清街对面的大楼，感觉太郁闷了，”24岁的杂志编辑牙韩翔说。“为什么要生活在这里？感觉像住在地下室一样。”
The contrast between Mr. Ya’s view of Beijing and the description of the coastal province of Shandong in an ad for a small technology company, Mengba 100, on the social media website Douban could not be more stark.
牙韩翔对北京的看法，和一份广告中对沿海省份山东的描述形成了极为鲜明的对比。这份广告是一家小型科技公司“梦吧100”发布的，贴在社交媒体网站豆瓣网上。
“Had enough of the sand storms? Are you becoming like dried meat as you suffer in the smog? Now you have a choice: Come to Jinan, the capital of Shandong, with mountains and lakes,” reads a promotion aimed at computer engineers.
“沙尘暴受够了有木有？！雾霾加天天挤罐头快被搞成熏肉了有木有！现在有一个选择——来到我们有山有水的大山东的省会！济南！“一则招聘计算机工程师的广告称。
Liu Hao, 27, the product manager at Mengba 100, who left Beijing two years ago, said he wrote the ad to appeal to people like himself.
27岁的刘昊（音）是梦吧100的产品经理，两年前离开了北京。他说写这则广告是为了吸引和自己一样的人。
“When I was in Beijing, I was sick for months from bronchitis caused by the bad air,” Mr. Liu said. “Now, someday when I have a kid, I’ll be able to take him to the river or woods just a few minutes’ drive away.”
“在北京的时候，我病了几个月，因为空气不好引发了支气管炎，”刘昊说。“现在，如果我有了孩子，只需开几分钟的车就可以带他到河边或树林去玩了。”