School was canceled, traffic was nearly paralyzed and the airport was shut down in the northeast Chinese city of Harbin on Monday as off-the-charts pollution dropped visibility to less than 10 meters in parts of the provincial capital.
周一中国东北城市哈尔滨污染爆表，这个省会城市部分地区的能见度低于10米，导致学校停课、交通几近瘫痪、机场停运。
A dark, gray cloud that the local weather bureau described as “heavy fog” has shrouded the city of 10 million since Thursday, but the smoke thickened significantly on Sunday, soon after the government turned on the coal-powered municipal heating system for the winter.
自上周四起，被当地气象部门称为“浓雾”的深灰色云层一直笼罩着这个1000万人口的城市，但在政府启动冬季燃煤城市供暖系统之后不久，周日烟雾大幅加重。
“You can’t see your own fingers in front of you,” the city’s official news site explained helpfully. In the same vein, a resident of Harbin commented on Sina Weibo, the popular microblog platform, “You can hear the person you are talking to, but not see him.” Another resident added that he couldn’t see the person he was holding hands with.
该市官方新闻网站“有帮助地”解释称，“伸手不见五指。”哈尔滨一名居民在流行的微博平台新浪微博上发帖称，“最远的距离就是我们面对面通电话，就是看不见你。只闻其声不见其人呀。”另一居民补充说，他甚至看不到与自己拉着手的人。 
The airport in Harbin said on its official microblog Monday morning that dozens of flights had been delayed or diverted due to the smog, which it said brought visibility down to about 100 meters at 1 p.m. By early evening, it announced that all flights scheduled on Monday had been canceled.
哈尔滨机场周一早上在官方微博上称，由于雾霾，几十次航班已经晚点或备降其它机场。机场称，能见度在下午1点时低于100米左右。到傍晚，机场宣布周一所有航班都已取消。
The Harbin government reported an air quality index (AQI) score of 500, the highest possible reading, with some neighborhoods posting concentrations of PM2.5 — fine particulate matter that are 2.5 microns in diameter or smaller and especially harmful to health — as high as 1,000 milligrams per cubic meter, according to the China News Service.
据中新社消息，哈尔滨市政府报告称，空气质量指数为500，这是该指数可能达到的最高数值，一些地段的PM2.5（直径在2.5微米或以下，对健康尤其有害的微小颗粒物）浓度达到每立方米1000毫克。
(By comparison, the air quality index in New York was 41 on Monday morning.)
（相比之下，周一早晨纽约的空气质量指数为41。）
The Chinese government describes air with an AQI between 301 and 500 as “heavily polluted” and urges people to refrain from exercising outdoors; the elderly and other vulnerable populations are supposed to stay indoors entirely. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency uses a similar index that labels any reading between 301 and 500 as “hazardous.”
中国政府将301至500之间的空气质量读数界定为“重度污染”，敦促人们减少户外活动；建议老年人及其他体弱群体完全呆在室内。美国国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)采用的一个类似指数将介于301至500的任何读数定义为“有害”。
Both scales reach their limit at 500, leaving creative citizens of polluted cities to come up with their own labels when the air gets worse. Foreign residents in Beijing declared an “airpocalpyse” last January when the U.S. Embassy reported an AQI equivalent of 755, with a PM2.5 concentration of 866 milligrams per cubic meter. The World Health Organization has standards that judge a score above 500 to be more than 20 times the level of particulate matter in the air deemed safe.
这两个指数可能达到的最高极限都是500，空气变得更糟糕时，污染城市的居民发挥创造力，拿出自己的读数。今年1月份，美国驻北京大使馆监测的空气质量读数相当于755，PM2.5浓度达到每立方米866毫克时，北京的外籍居民惊呼“末日空气”。按照世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)的标准，读数超过500时，大气中的颗粒物超出安全水平20倍以上。
On Monday, people in Harbin were covering their heads and mouths with scarves and masks to ward off the choking smell in the air. Despite government warnings to stay home, cars with headlights turned on were moving no faster than pedestrians and honking frequently as drivers struggled to see traffic lights meters away, the city’s official news site said.
周一，哈尔滨的人们用围巾和口罩盖住头部和口部，以抵挡空气中令人窒息的气味。 尽管政府警告人们要呆在家中，但该市官方新闻网站称，路上行驶的车辆都打开了大灯和雾灯并不断鸣笛，以蜗速谨慎慢行，驾驶者看不清几米开外的交通灯。
At an emergency meeting called at 6 a.m., the authorities decided to close all schools and kindergartens, the report said. The local police also shut several highways at 7 a.m., but not before the smog caused two pile-ups, which left one truck driver injured, the official Xinhua news agency reported. (Nearby Jilin Province also reported 14 road accidents on Sunday night; the authorities there issued a red alert for pollution Monday morning.)
报道称，政府在早上6点钟召开紧急会议，决定让所有学校和幼儿园停课。该市警察也在早上7点钟关闭了几条高速公路，但据新华社报道，到了那时，浓雾已引发两起连环撞车事故，一名卡车司机受伤。（邻近的吉林省也报道周日晚上发生14起道路交通事故；该省政府在周一早上启动了污染红色预警。）
The pollution in Harbin has caused a 30 percent surge in hospital admissions of patients with respiratory problems, according to the local news media. Residents have been told by doctors to wear masks and eat pears, a fruit commonly believed in northern China to help heal lungs.
当地媒体报道称，哈尔滨的污染造成因患呼吸道疾病而入院求医的病人激增30%。医生也告诉居民要戴口罩并多吃梨，中国北方普遍认为梨这种水果可以润肺。
The city weather bureau blamed the pollution on three factors: a lack of wind; local farms burning corn leaves and stalks after the harvest; and the start of the municipal central heating system, which provides heat to millions of homes and offices and relies on large coal-burning boilers across the city.
哈尔滨市气象部门将这场污染归咎于三个因素：少风、当地农民在秋整地期间大量焚烧秸秆，以及该市集中供暖启炉。为数百万家庭和办公室供暖的系统依赖分布在市内各地的燃煤锅炉。
The system pumps hot water into radiators and is supposed to heat residences to at least 18 degrees Celsius (64 degrees Fahrenheit). But Harbin, located not far from the Russian border in Heilongjiang Province, is one of China’s coldest cities, and its coal-dependent heating system means it must choose each year between heat and clean air.
这一供暖系统将热水注入散热器中，理应使居民家中至少加热到18摄氏度。但是，距离俄罗斯边境附近不远的黑龙江省哈尔滨市是中国最寒冷的城市之一，其供暖系统依赖燃煤意味着，该市每年都必须在保暖和干净的空气之间做出选择。
Harbin has been battling air pollution for years, destroying hundreds of smaller boilers, banning the use of high-sulfur coal, and adopting cleaner fuel standards for cars. On Monday, the city dispatched environmental protection personnel to conduct inspections of factory smokestacks, traffic police to perform spot checks of motor vehicle emissions, and village officials to stop farmers from burning corn waste.
哈尔滨多年来一直在治理大气污染，销毁了数百个小型锅炉，禁止使用高硫煤，并让车辆采取了更加洁净的燃料。周一，由该市派出的环境保护人员对工厂烟囱进行检查，交警对机动车辆排放进行抽查，村领导则制止农民继续焚烧秸秆。
Temperatures are forecast to drop to the freezing point this week, but the local weather bureau said the cold front could also bring rain that could clear out some of the pollution.
天气预报称，本周这里的气温将下降到零点，但当地气象部门称，冷峰也有可能会带来降雨，有望清除部分污染。
In the meantime, residents were left comparing the air to something out of a horror film. Said an Internet user going by the screen name Han Doudou, “If you think this is the movie set for Silent Hill, Resident Evil or The Walking Dead, you are wrong — this is Harbin.”
与此同时，这里的居民将空气质量与一部恐怖电影进行对比。一名用户名为“函豆豆”的网民发帖称，“你以为这是寂静岭，生化危机，行尸走肉拍摄地？孩子你太天真了，如果看见这场景那说明你到哈尔滨了！！”