NEW DELHI — For years, this sprawling city on the Yamuna River had the dirtiest air in the world, but few who lived here seemed conscious of the problem or worried about its consequences.
新德里——多年来，亚穆纳河畔这座庞大城市的空气一直可谓是世界最脏的，但似乎很少有居民意识到这是个问题，或为其影响担心。
Now, suddenly, that has begun to change. Some among New Delhi’s Indian and foreign elites have started to wear the white surgical masks so common in Beijing. The United States Embassy purchased 1,800 high-end air purifiers in recent months for staff members’ homes, with many other major embassies following suit.
如今，情况突然开始改变。新德里的一些印度和外国精英人士，也开始佩戴在北京颇为常见的白色医用口罩。最近几个月，美国大使馆为工作人员的住所购买了1800台高端空气净化器，其他许多主要国家的大使馆也在这么做。
Some embassies, including Norway’s, have begun telling diplomats with children to reconsider moving to the city, and officials have quietly reported a surge in diplomats choosing to curtail their tours. Indian companies have begun ordering filtration systems for their office buildings.
包括挪威大使馆在内的一些大使馆已经开始要求有孩子的外交官重新考虑是否要搬到这座城市；官员们也暗中表示，选择缩短任期的外交官人数正在激增。印度企业已经开始为他们的办公楼订购过滤系统。
“My business has just taken off,” said Barun Aggarwal, director of BreatheEasy, a Delhi-based air filtration company. “It started in the diplomatic community, but it’s spread to the high-level Indian community, too.”
“我的事业刚刚起飞，”设在德里的空气过滤用品公司“顺畅呼吸”(BreatheEasy)的主管巴伦·阿加沃尔(Barun Aggarwal)说。“它始于外交圈，但目前已经扩展到了高层印度社区。”
The increased awareness of the depth of India’s air problems even led Indian diplomats, who had long expressed little interest in climate and pollution discussions with United States officials, to suddenly ask the Americans for help in cleaning India’s air late last year, according to participants in the talks. So when President Obama left Delhi after a visit last month, he could point to a series of pollution agreements, including one to bring the United States system for measuring pollution levels to many Indian cities and another to help study ways to reduce exhaust from trucks, a major source of urban pollution.
由于人们愈发意识到印度空气问题的严重性，就连长时间以来，对与美国官员谈论气候和污染问题兴趣不大的印度外交官，去年年底都突然请求美国帮他们改善印度的空气质量，相关会谈的参与者透露。所以，当奥巴马总统在上个月访问印度后离开德里时，他手上有有一系列污染协议可以示人。其中一项提出要把美国测量污染程度的系统引入多个印度城市，另一项则指出要研究减少卡车废气排放的方式。卡车废气是城市污染的主要来源。
One driver for the change is a deluge of stories in Indian and international news outlets over the last year about Delhi’s air problems. Those articles, once rare, now appear almost daily, reporting such news as spikes in hospital visits for asthma and related illnesses. One article about Mr. Obama’s visit focused on how, by one scientist’s account, he might have lost six hours from his expected life span after spending three days in Delhi.
去年，印度和国际媒体对德里空气问题的大量报道也推动了这种变化。这些文章曾经并不多见，而现在几乎每天都有，比如因为哮喘和相关疾病前去就医的人数猛增等。其中一篇关于奥巴马访问的文章，用一位科学家的说法讲述道，他因为在德里待了三天，而使寿命缩短了六个小时。
“We felt this was an issue we should take up, and we have taken it up,” said Arindam Sengupta, executive editor of The Times of India, whose campaign against air pollution has helped give prominence to the problem.
“我们觉得这是我们应该应对的问题，而且我们已经开始应对它了，”《印度时报》(Times of India)的执行主编阿林达姆·森古普塔(Arindam Sengupta)说。该报对空气污染的关注，提高了人们对这个问题的关注度。
But Nicholas Dawes, a top editor at The Hindustan Times, said the media coverage was just one reason for the attitude shift. “I think the people of Delhi are increasingly unwilling to tolerate tough circumstances,” he said.
然而，《印度斯坦时报》(Hindustan Times)的高级编辑尼古拉斯·道斯(Nicholas Dawes)表示，媒体报道只是人们态度转变的原因之一。他说，“我认为德里人现在越来越不愿意忍受恶劣的环境了。”
At least so far, that has not translated into much meaningful action by the government. In fact, the problem is likely to get worse as the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi works to reboot the economy. His government recently promised to double its use of coal over the next five years.
至少到目前为止，政府还没有把这种意识转化为多少有意义的行动。其实，由于印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)的政府正在努力提振经济，空气问题很可能会恶化。他的政府最近承诺将在未来五年内，把煤炭使用量增加一倍。
But Dr. Joshua S. Apte, an assistant professor of environmental engineering at the University of Texas at Austin, who has studied Delhi’s air pollution since 2007, said recognition was a start. “The thing that gives me greatest hope is the huge increase in awareness that I’ve seen in Delhi just in the past year,” he said.
不过，德州大学奥斯汀分校(University of Texas at Austin)的环境工程助理教授约书亚·S·阿普特(Dr. Joshua S. Apte)说，承认问题是一个开始。他从2007年开始研究德里的空气污染。他说，“我发现，仅仅过去一年，德里人的环境意识就出现了大幅度提高，这给了我最大的希望。”
Delhi’s air is the world’s most toxic in part because of high concentrations of PM2.5, particulate matter less than 2.5 micrometers in diameter that is believed to pose the greatest health risk because it penetrates deeply into lungs. While Beijing’s air quality has generated more headlines worldwide, scientists say New Delhi’s air is often significantly worse, especially during the winter, when choking smog often settles over the sprawling city.
德里的空气是世界上毒性最大的，这部分是因为高浓度的PM2.5。PM2.5指直径小于2.5微米的颗粒物质，由于能深入肺部，所以被认为具有最大的健康风险。虽然全球媒体报道更多的是北京的空气质量，但科学家说，新德里的空气质量往往更加糟糕，尤其是冬季，当呛人的烟雾盘踞在整个城市上空的时候。
Four city monitors found an average PM2.5 level of 226 micrograms per cubic meter between Dec. 1 and Jan. 30 — a level the United States Environmental Protection Agency calls “very unhealthy” and during which children should avoid outdoor activity. The average in Beijing for the period was 95, according to the United States Embassy monitor there.
四座市内监测站发现，在12月1日到1月30日之间，每立方米空气的PM2.5平均含量为226微克——美国国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)将这个水平评定为“非常不健康”，并建议儿童避免户外活动。美国大使馆在北京的监测站表示，这段时间，北京的PM2.5平均含量为95微克。
Indeed, there has not been a single 30-day period in Beijing over the past two years during which the average PM2.5 level was as bad as it was in December and January in Delhi.
的确，过去两年，北京没有任何时候连续30天的PM2.5平均含量，会像德里12月和1月时那么糟糕。
Worse yet, the numbers tell only half the story because Delhi’s PM2.5 particles are far more dangerous than those from many other locales because of the widespread burning of garbage, coal and diesel fuel that results in high quantities of toxins such as sulfur, dioxins and other carcinogenic compounds, said Dr. Sarath Guttikunda, director of Urban Emissions, an independent research group based in Delhi.
然而，设在德里的独立研究机构“城市排放”(Urban Emissions)的负责人萨拉斯·古提昆塔(Sarath Guttikunda)说，更糟的是，这些数字只讲了一半的故事，因为德里的PM2.5颗粒比许多其他地方要危险很多，这是因为到处都在燃烧垃圾、煤炭和柴油，所以产生了硫、二噁英和其他致癌化合物等大量有毒物质。
“Delhi’s air is just incredibly toxic,” said Dr. Guttikunda, who recently moved to Goa to protect his two young children from Delhi’s air. “People in Delhi are increasingly aware that the air is bad, but they have no idea just how catastrophically bad it really is.”
“德里空气的毒性令人难以置信，”古提昆塔说。他近期搬到了果阿邦，以防两个年幼的孩子被德里的空气伤害。“德里的人们逐渐意识到那里空气不好，但他们不知道这种空气，事实上会造成多恶劣的灾难性影响。”
After Dr. Apte gave a presentation about Delhi’s air pollution to a hall packed with anxious parents recently at the American Embassy School, the administration invested in indoor air filters and increasingly restricts children’s outdoor activities when pollution levels are especially high. Even so, the sidelines during school soccer games are lined with players’ medicinal inhalers.
最近，阿普特在美国使馆学校(American Embassy School)一个挤满了焦虑父母的大厅里，发表了关于德里空气污染的演讲。之后，管理层就对室内空气过滤器进行了投资，而且还在污染程度特别高时，加强了对儿童户外活动的限制。即便如此，当学校进行足球比赛时，边线上还是放满了运动员的药物吸入器。