NEW DELHI — For days, many in Delhi have been living as if under siege, trying to keep the dirty air away from their children and older parents.
新德里——数日来，德里很多人仿佛生活在一座被围困的城市，他们试图让脏空气远离孩子和年长的父母。
But it is not easy: Open a window or a door, and the haze enters the room within seconds. Outside, the sky is white, the sun a white circle so pale that you can barely make it out. The smog is acrid, eye-stinging and throat-burning, and so thick that it is being blamed for a 70-vehicle pileup north of the city.
但这并不容易：打开窗户或门，霾会在几秒钟内进入房间。外面的天空是白色的，太阳是一个白色的圆圈，白的几乎分辨不出来。烟雾刺鼻、辣眼睛、灼烧喉咙，而且很浓密，导致了该市北部70辆车连环相撞。
If in past years, Delhi’s roughly 20 million residents shrugged off wintertime pollution as fog, over the last week they viewed it as a crisis. Schools have been ordered closed for three days — an unprecedented measure, but not a reassuring one, since experts say the concentration of pollutants inside Indian homes is typically not much lower than outside.
如果说在过去的几年里，德里大约2000万居民把冬季常见的污染当作了雾，并不在意，那么在上周，他们把它视为一场危机。学校奉令停课三天，这种做法前所未有，但却没有令人感到放心，因为专家说，印度住宅内的污染物浓度通常不会比外面低多少。
Levels of the most dangerous particles, called PM 2.5, reached 700 micrograms per cubic meter on Monday, and over the weekend they soared in some places to 1,000, or more than 16 times the limit India’s government considers safe. The damage from sustained exposure to such high concentrations of PM 2.5 is equivalent to smoking more than two packs of cigarettes a day, experts say.
本周一，最危险的PM2.5颗粒水平达到了700微克/立方米，周末，一些地方曾飙升到1000，超过了印度政府安全标准上限16倍。专家说，持续暴露在如此高浓度的PM2.5中，对身体的损害相当于每天吸两包以上的香烟。
“There is so much smog outside that today, inside my house, I felt as someone had just burned a few sheets of paper,” said Amaan Ahuja, one of dozens who shared their families’ experiences in response to a request from The New York Times.
“今天外面的烟雾太大，在我的房子里面，都感觉好像是有人烧了几张纸，”阿曼·阿胡贾(Amaan Ahuja)说。他是回应《纽约时报》询问的几十个人之一。
“You can literally see smoke in the air, and when you breathe, you can smell it, too,” he said. “We are trying to keep the kids indoors with all the windows closed.”
“当你呼吸时，你真的可以看到空气中的烟雾，也可以闻到它，”他说。“我们试图让孩子们回到室内，关闭所有的窗户。
Another reader, Tulika Seth, described her family’s life over the past week as “unnatural and disturbing.”
另一位读者图里卡·赛斯(Tulika Seth)说，她的家人过去一周的生活“很不自然，令人烦恼”。
Asked where she lived, she responded, “a gas chamber.”
当被问及住在哪里时，她回答说，“毒气室里。”
To understand the health consequences of the dense smog that settled over India’s capital over the past week, scientists are looking back decades in search of a historical precedent: to the 1952 Great Smog of London, which is believed to have caused as many as 12,000 premature deaths.
为了了解过去一周里笼罩印度首都的浓烟对人体健康有何影响，科学家们找到了几十年前的一个先例：1952年的伦敦大烟雾，据信造成了多达1.2万人过早死亡。
In that case, a layer of dense pollution — caused largely by emissions from burning coal — dissipated after four days, when the weather changed. But an uptick in deaths continued for weeks afterward, so shocking the public that it spurred a wave of environmental regulations.
当时伦敦出现了一层密集的污染，主要是燃煤排放物，四天后天气出现变化，这层污染物才消散。但接下来几周伦敦的死亡率持续上升，令公众震惊，也导致了诸多环境法规的出台。
Delhi’s chief minister on Sunday announced a series of emergency measures, including a five-day moratorium on construction, a 10-day closure of a power plant and a three-day closure of about 1,800 public schools.
德里的首席部长上周日宣布了一系列紧急措施，包括暂停施工5天，一座发电站停产10天，约1800所公立学校停课三天。
On Monday, the city government released a list of health guidelines, advising citizens to wash their eyes with running water and to go to a hospital if they were experiencing symptoms like “breathlessness, giddiness, chest pain and chest constriction.”
周一，市政府发布了一份健康指南，建议市民用自来水冲洗眼睛，如果出现“呼吸困难、眩晕、胸痛和胸部收缩”等症状，就需要去医院诊疗。
But experts said mitigating the conditions would have required policies to be put in place months ago.
但专家表示，要减缓这种状况，需要在几个月前就把政策落实到位。
“These are all decent emergency measures, but they’re not solving the long-term problem,” said Bhargav Krishna, who manages the Public Health Foundation of India’s environmental health center.
印度环境健康中心公共健康基金会(Public Health Foundation)负责人巴葛·克里希纳(Bhargav Krishna)说：“这些紧急措施都是恰当的，但它们不能解决长期问题。”
“The best we can hope for, in a way, is to plan for next year,” he added. “This year is almost a washout.”
“从某种程度上说，我们能抱的最大希望就是为明年做计划，”他说。“今年差不多就是这样了。”
Changing weather conditions are likely to disperse the dense cloud of pollutants over the next few days. But they will also bring the beginning of the widespread burning of trash, including plastic and rubber, for warmth by Delhi’s poor.
在接下来的几天内，不断变化的天气条件可能会吹散浓密的污染云。但同时那也意味着德里的穷人为了取暖要开始焚烧垃圾，其中包括塑料和橡胶。
Among the persistent problems for policy makers is that the sources of the pollution — vehicles, construction, crop burning, and holiday fireworks — fall under the authority of half a dozen city, state and federal government bodies, which are in some cases at odds with one another politically, Mr. Krishna said.
对于政策制定者来说，一个持续存在的问题是污染的来源——车辆、建筑施工、焚烧秸秆和假日烟花——属于市、邦和联邦政府的大约六个职权部门管理，克里希纳说，有时候这些部门之间存在政治上的不和。
“Where exactly is the responsibility for implementing these plans?” he said. “At whose desk does this all lie?”
“实施这些计划的责任究竟是谁在负？”他说。“这些应该摆在谁的办公桌上？”
He added, “The diffuse nature of power means that it is easy to pass on responsibility to others.”
他说，“职权重叠交叉意味着很容易把责任推诿给别人。”
Public anger over Delhi’s air is more palpable than in previous years, and people are more likely to identify pollution as the cause of their health problems.
德里空气污染引发的众怒比前几年更加明显，人们变得更加倾向于认为污染是造成自己健康问题的原因。
Anumita Roychowdhury, who runs the air pollution program at the Center for Science and Environment, said that sense of urgency would have to be sustained if the city were to impose lifestyle changes, including restraints on car travel.
在科学与环境中心(Center for Science and Environment)负责空气污染项目的阿努米塔·罗伊乔杜里(Anumita Roychowdhury)表示，要改变德里的生活方式，包括对出行车辆进行限制，就必须保持这种危机感。
“This has to translate to very strong support for very hard decisions,” she said. “All soft options are over.”
“它必须转化成对艰难决策给予非常有力的支持，”她说。“已经没有软性方案可选了。”
First, though, people here must get through the next few days.
不过，人们必须先熬过接下来的几天。
Sherebanu Frosh, who lives in Gurgaon, south of Delhi, said she and her children were “cowering by our air purifiers,” which had become overloaded with the concentration of particles in the air.
生活在新德里以南古尔冈的谢雷巴努·弗罗什(Sherebanu Frosh)表示，她和孩子“蜷缩在家里的空气净化器旁边”。这些机器已经因为空气中粒子浓度过大而超负荷。
“So we’re putting both our purifiers in one room and spending the day there,” she said. “If we leave, we wear masks.”
“所以我们把两台净化器放在一个房间里，整天待在里面，”她说。“如果离开这个房间，我们就带上口罩。”
Jessica Farmer, whose children attend the American Embassy School in Delhi, said she had moved five purifiers into three rooms of her house, but the concentration of PM 2.5 in some places remained at 300, five times the W.H.O. recommended limit.
杰西卡·法默(Jessica Farmer)的孩子在德里的美国大使馆学校(American Embassy School)上学，她说她把五台净化器集中到家中的三个房间里，但有些地方的PM2.5浓度依然达到300，即世界卫生组织提出的合格值的五倍。
“It is as though we are under siege,” Ms. Farmer said. “We can’t go outside, to malls or movies where the air is not purified.
“就好像我们在被围困着，”法默说。“我们不能出去，不能去没有空气净化设备的商场或影院。”
“How can one live like this?”
“这样让人怎么活？”