The heavy air pollution that shrouded much of eastern China over the past week has generated intense coverage in Chinese media, including a few efforts to find silver linings in the haze. Aided by the expansion of real-time air quality monitoring to many cities, along with official websites that report pollution data, Chinese residents have a far better idea now of what they are breathing than they did just a few years ago, when such information was considered sensitive and Chinese officials reacted angrily to the United States posting from a monitoring device at its embassy in Beijing.According to Google and Baidu, the Chinese search engine, Internet searches for a Chinese phrase for “air pollution” — 空气污染 — showed huge spikes in January, when Beijing also saw sharp increases in measured levels of PM 2.5, fine particulates especially hazardous to human health.
过去一周笼罩着中国东部大片区域的严重空气污染获得了中国媒体的大量报道，其中一些试图从雾霾中找到一丝希望。由于实时空气质量监测扩展到了许多城市，加上通报污染数据的官方网站上线，比起仅仅几年前，中国居民如今对自己呼吸的空气有了深入得多的认识。要知道，此类信息一度被认为相当敏感。对美国驻华大使馆公布其监测仪数据的做法，中国官方也曾予以了愤怒的回应。查看谷歌(Google)和中国搜索引擎百度可以发现，今年1月，中文短语“空气污染”的搜索量猛增。当时，北京的PM 2.5监测值急剧上升。这一数据代表的是对人类健康尤为有害的细颗粒物。
The use of “air pollution” and related phrases has jumped again as Shanghai and other cities have experienced extremely bad air quality on levels more frequently associated with northern China.
随着上海等地经历了极其糟糕的空气，“空气污染”及相关词汇再次成为热门。这种水平的污染过去更常与中国北部地区联系在一起。
On Friday, 104 cities in 20 provinces had readings that exceeded 300 on China’s air quality index, making them “heavily polluted,” according to Ministry of Environmental Protection figures cited by Xinhua, the state-run news agency. In Shanghai, the concentration of PM 2.5 hit a record of 602.5 micrograms per cubic meter.However, the greater prevalence of severe air pollution is not without benefits, argued Wang Lei, an editor for China Central Television’s website, in an essay posted Sunday. With bad air no longer limited to Beijing and other notoriously polluted northern cities like Shijiazhuang, Mr. Wang wrote, “people all over the country have sadly realized that everyone can experience smog and no one should feel superior or put others down.”
根据官方媒体新华网援引的环保部数据，上周五，20个省份的104座城市的空气质量指数超过了300，为“重污染”。在上海，PM 2.5的浓度高达602.5毫克每立方米，创下纪录。不过，央视网的编辑王磊周日撰文指出，肆虐神州的雾霾并非一无是处。由于糟糕的空气不再局限于北京与石家庄等因污染而臭名昭著的北方城市，王磊写道，“全国各地人民悲催地发现，大家在雾霾面前是半斤八两，轮流患难，谁也拿不出多少优越感。”
Spreading pollution makes Chinese citizens more equal and clearheaded about the threat they face, he continued. “When the whole world is praising China’s economic miracle, when all of society is obsessed with improving standards of living, the haze lets us clearly understand that for China to become the ‘factory of the world’ is not without costs, and clean air’s contribution to happiness is something that money can’t buy,” he wrote.
他还表示，污染的扩大让中国人更平等、对面临的威胁更清醒。“当全世界都吹捧中国的经济奇迹时，当全社会都醉心于生活水平的日新月异时，雾霾让我们清醒地认识到，中国‘世界工厂’地位的获得并非没有代价，而清洁空气对幸福感的保证是金钱买不到的，”他写道。
The argument that China’s pollution crisis has forced a public awareness of the problem has been made before. But its discussion in official media outlets like CCTV is a step further and a sign that the seriousness of air pollution, which just a few years ago was downplayed or dismissed as fog, is now broadly recognized.
以前也有评论认为，中国的污染危机已迫使公众意识到这一问题。然而，央视这样的官媒进行此类讨论是向前迈进了一步，但也标志着空气污染的严重性。仅仅几年前，空气污染还遭到淡化，被不以为然地称之为雾，如今却已受到广泛承认。
Mr. Wang also listed a benefit that had escaped most observers up to this point, that bad air had spurred a boom in pollution jokes, as Chinese try to face the burdens of pollution with humor. Several Chinese bloggers suggested that a Global Times article published on Monday fell into that category. The article said pollution would influence military operations by reducing the effectiveness of aerial surveillance and some weapons-guidance systems.
王磊还列出了多数观察人士之前忽略了的一条好处，那就是中国人面对糟糕的空气苦中作乐，于是催生了许多关于污染的段子。数名中国博客作者认为，《环球时报》周一刊发的一篇文章就属于此列。文中称，它会令空中侦察装备和部分武器制导系统的效果大打折扣。
“So we can only halt pollution during the Olympics or World Expo,” wrote one person on Sino Weibo. “The rest of the time we must generate excessive output. That’s the only way we can ensure the people’s security.”
“咱只能在奥运、世博等和平期间关闭雾障，”新浪微博的一名用户评论，“其他时间必须开足功率匿起来，这样才能确保人民的生命财产安全。”
Hu Xijin, the editor of Global Times, reacted strongly to the suggestion that the article was offering a military justification for air pollution, or that it was a joke. He accused other Chinese media outlets of deliberately distorting its contents to get web traffic. This “serious article has been turned into a defense of China’s air pollution by some people,” he wrote, adding that they were turning the Internet into a “world of amusement.” 
面对这篇文章是以军事的名义为空气污染正名或是开玩笑的说法，《环球时报》的主编胡锡进反应强烈。他指责其他一些新闻机构故意曲解文章内容，以获取网络流量。他写道，这篇“严肃文章，被一群人说成是为中国的雾霾辩护”，并称他们把互联网搞成了“娱乐世界”。