BERLIN — Cornelius Gurlitt, the German recluse who captured the art world’s attention last fall after it was revealed that he had kept hidden for decades a collection of 19th- and 20th-century European masterworks amassed by his father under the Nazis in his Munich apartment, died on Tuesday at his home in Munich. He was 81.
柏林——德国隐士廓尼琉斯·古尔利特(Cornelius Gurlitt)周二（此处指5月6日——编注）在慕尼黑家中去世，终年81岁。去年秋天，媒体报道说，几十年来，他在慕尼黑的寓所中藏有其父在纳粹执政期间收集的一系列19世纪和20世纪的欧洲艺术杰作，震惊了艺术界。
His spokesman, Stephan Holzinger, confirmed the death.
他的发言人斯蒂芬·霍尔茨英格尔(Stephan Holzinger)证实了他的死讯。
Mr. Gurlitt died without known heirs, leaving behind a tangle of questions about what will become of the art, some of it in the custody of the German government, some of it still in his possession and some of it subject to restitution claims.
古尔利特没有已知的继承人，他去世后，这些艺术品将何去何从，成了一个难题。有些艺术品在德国政府的监管之下，有些仍归他所有，还有些收到了索还请求。
Outrage flared in November after the German newsweekly Focus broke the story of Mr. Gurlitt’s collection and the authorities’ failure to reveal the existence of approximately 1,280 paintings and drawings — by Chagall, Picasso, Matisse, Otto Dix, Max Beckmann and others — that had been confiscated from his apartment. Some of the works were unknown at the time, having never been entered in international art catalogs.
去年11月，德国新闻周刊《焦点》(Focus)报道说，当局在古尔利特的寓所里没收了大约1280件油画和素描——作者包括夏加尔(Chagall)、毕加索(Picasso)、马蒂斯(Matisse)、奥托·迪克斯(Otto Dix)和马克斯·贝克曼(Max Beckmann)等——而当局之前完全不知道这些画的存在，民众为之哗然。其中有些作品当时完全不为人所知，从未进入国际艺术品名单。
Matthias Henkel, a spokesman for a task force formed by German authorities to help investigate the provenance of the collection, said Tuesday that its work would go on since the moral obligation to clarify history remains.
德国政府组成了一个特别小组，帮助调查这些藏品的来源。该小组的发言人马提亚·亨克尔(Matthias Henkel)周二说，他们的工作还将继续，因为弄清历史真相的道义责任依然存在。
Mr. Holzinger said it would be “up to a court to determine whether there is a valid will or contract of inheritance.” Under Bavarian law, if there was no such contract, a court will be appointed to decide who, if anyone, could inherit Mr. Gurlitt’s property.
霍尔茨英格尔说，“将由法院确定是否存在有效的遗嘱或继承合同。”根据巴伐利亚州的法律，如果没有遗嘱或合同，政府将指定一个法院来决定谁将继承古利特的遗产——如果有人能继承的话。
The artworks were seized in a tax evasion investigation in February 2012 from the apartment where Mr. Gurlitt had lived quietly for decades, occasionally selling a painting but otherwise hoarding a collection assembled by his father, Hildebrand Gurlitt, one of four dealers allowed under the Nazis to buy and sell the modern, or “degenerate,” art they officially so despised.
这些艺术品是2012年2月在一次逃税调查中在古尔利特的寓所中被查封的，他已悄悄在那里居住了几十年。古尔利特偶尔卖画，但大多数时候只管守着他父亲希尔德布兰德·古尔利特(Hildebrand Gurlitt)收集来的这些艺术品。其父是得到纳粹允许可以买卖现代艺术品的四位商人之一。纳粹政府曾公开鄙视这些艺术品，称它们为“堕落的”艺术。
Many works in the Gurlitt collection were plundered from German museums, but scores are thought to have belonged to Jewish collectors who were forced to sell their art way below market value as they tried to flee the Nazis or simply had them confiscated before or after being expelled and murdered.
古尔利特藏品中的很多作品是从德国的博物馆抢来的，但是还有大量作品本来属于犹太收藏者，他们在试图从纳粹控制下逃走时，被迫以远低于市场价的价格贱卖，或者是在他们被驱逐或杀害之前或之后被没收的。
The Jewish heirs mounted the loudest cry after the collection came to light. The authorities in Bavaria and embarrassed officials in Berlin swiftly turned the job of investigating provenance over to the international task force, which is continuing its investigation under an agreement reached several weeks ago with Mr. Gurlitt. Hundreds of his artworks have been posted on a government website, lostart.de, but his lawyers say that only four claims have been received. Not one picture has been returned.
这些藏品曝光后，犹太后裔愤怒的呼声最大。巴伐利亚地方政府和柏林难堪的官员们很快把调查来源的工作移交给了这个国际特别小组，该小组正根据几周前与古尔利特达成的协议继续调查。他收藏的上千件艺术品已经在政府网站lostart.de上公布，但是他的律师说只收到了四个索还请求。尚无一张画得以归还。
Mr. Gurlitt had a serious heart condition and was hospitalized in December. He had been under constant medical care since being released from the hospital some weeks ago at his request, Mr. Holzinger said.
古尔利特有严重的心脏病，去年12月份入院治疗。霍尔茨英格尔说，几周前古利特要求出院，之后一直在接受治疗。
Due to his failing health, Mr. Gurlitt had been appointed and was represented by an official guardian, Christoph Edel, in recent negotiations that allowed the investigation of provenance to continue, despite a court ordering that the artworks be released to their legal owner, Mr. Gurlitt. His only sibling, a sister, Benita, died childless in 2012.
由于健康状况恶化，政府给古利特指派了一位官方监护人克里斯托弗·埃德尔(Christoph Edel)，作为古尔利特在最近谈判中的代表。谈判的结果是允许来源调查继续进行，尽管根据法院判令，这些艺术品应该归还给其合法所有者古尔利特。他唯一的姐姐贝妮塔(Benita)2012年去世，也没有孩子。
Monika Grütters, who oversees cultural affairs for Germany’s federal government, issued a statement on Tuesday lauding Mr. Gurlitt for allowing the investigation of his collection. “As a private person, he set an example in his commitment to moral responsibility in seeking out fair and just solutions,” the statement said. “For this step, he was rightly accorded recognition and respect.”
德国联邦政府文化事务主管莫妮卡·格鲁特斯(Monika Grütters)周二发表了一项声明，称赞古尔利特允许开展藏品调查。“作为一个注重隐私的人，他在承担道义责任、寻求公正解决方案方面给我们树立了一个榜样，”声明中说，“他的这一做法应该得到认可和尊敬。”
The German authorities have held the trove at an undisclosed location, citing security reasons for the secrecy. In February, an additional 238 works — some of them said to be top-quality paintings — were removed from Mr. Gurlitt’s second home, in Salzburg, Austria, and also relocated to an unnamed location.
德国当局在一个秘密的地方保管这些宝物，称是为了安全起见才保密的。2月份，另外238件作品——其中有些是高品质的油画——从古尔利特位于奥地利萨尔斯堡的另一个家中被搬走，也被搬到了一个不知名的地方。
Mr. Gurlitt was last known to have sold a painting in December 2011, when the “Lion Tamer,” by Beckmann, fetched 864,000 euros, or $1.17 million, at an auction in Cologne, Germany. The auction house, Lempertz, said it had brokered an agreement for some of the money to go to heirs of Alfred Flechtheim, a Jewish art dealer who was forced to leave Germany and died a poor man in London in 1937.
古尔利特最后一次卖画是2011年12月在德国科隆的拍卖会上以86.4万欧元（约合117万美元）的价格卖出了贝克曼的《驯狮者》(Lion Tamer)。组织那次拍卖的伦佩茨(Lempertz)拍卖行称，它促成了一项协议，其中一部分钱将归属阿尔弗雷德·弗雷希特海姆(Alfred Flechtheim)的后裔。弗雷希特海姆是一位犹太艺术商，他被迫离开德国，1937年在伦敦去世，去世时非常贫穷。
Although reporters from around the world camped outside his Munich apartment for weeks after his art collection was revealed, Mr. Gurlitt gave only one interview, to the news weekly Der Spiegel. In that conversation, he revealed little about his life, saying that the only thing he had loved were his pictures.
虽然这些艺术藏品被曝光后，世界各地的记者在古尔利特慕尼黑寓所的外面露营了好几周，但是古尔利特只接受了新闻周刊《明镜》(Der Spiegel)的一次采访。在采访中，他几乎没有透露自己的生活，说他唯一深爱的就是他的那些画。
He came from a family renowned for activity in music, art and literature back into the 19th century. His father was deemed a quarter Jewish under the Nuremberg race laws, and he was dismissed from two museum posts by the Nazis.
他来自一个在19世纪时以音乐、艺术和文化活动闻名的家族。根据纽伦堡的种族法律，他父亲被认为有四分之一犹太血统，曾两次被纳粹从博物馆职位上开除。