Herding his three younger sons out the door to school on Feb. 5, David Bar Katz was stopped for a moment by his eldest, who was browsing the Internet.
2月5日，大卫·巴尔·卡茨(David Bar Katz)领着三个小儿子出门去上学，这时正在上网的大儿子叫住了他。
“My 14-year-old said, ‘Dad, there’s something online about you and Phil being lovers,’ ” Mr. Katz said. “I said, ‘Phil would get a kick out of that.’ ”
“我14岁的儿子说，‘爸爸，网上说你和菲尔是恋人，’”卡茨说，“我说，‘菲尔听了一定觉得很好玩。’”
Phil was Philip Seymour Hoffman, the actor and Mr. Katz’s good friend, who had been found dead three days earlier, apparently from an overdose of heroin. Mr. Katz, a playwright, was one of two people who had gone to his apartment and discovered his body.
这里的菲尔指的是演员菲利普·塞默·霍夫曼(Philip Seymour Hoffman)，他是卡茨的好朋友，当时刚去世三天，明显是死于过量吸食海洛因。两个朋友在他的公寓发现了他的尸体，剧作家卡茨是其中之一。
“Things had already achieved the maximum level of surreality, and I thought this thing online was a big nothing,” Mr. Katz said.
“事情已经变得极端超现实，我当时觉得网上这件事不算什么，”卡茨说。
In fact, the article, published by The National Enquirer, was the first pebble of a landslide of malignant fiction that sprawled across the web.
实际上，《国家调查者》(The National Enquirer)发表的那篇的文章如同一石激起千层浪，在网上引发了一片恶意的虚构。
It quoted Mr. Katz as saying he and Mr. Hoffman were lovers who had freebased cocaine the night before his death, and said Mr. Katz claimed to have seen him using heroin many times.
那篇文章说卡茨亲口说他和霍夫曼是恋人，说在后者去世前的那个夜晚他们加热吸食可卡因，说卡茨承认多次见到霍夫曼使用海洛因。
“After I dropped the kids at school, I looked at my phone, and I’ve gotten a million calls,” Mr. Katz said. Photographers were stalking him on the street.
“我把孩子们送到学校后，看了一下手机，有数不清的未接电话，”卡茨说。摄影师们在街上跟踪他。
Mr. Katz had not spoken with The Enquirer that week, or ever. Mr. Hoffman had never used drugs in his presence, he said, and had spoken often with him about addiction and his pursuit of sobriety. In a matter of hours, Mr. Katz signed the complaint in a libel suit. Within two days, The Enquirer had withdrawn the article and apologized.
卡茨那周没有——也从未——接受过《国家调查者》的采访。他说，霍夫曼从未在他面前吸过毒，经常跟他谈论吸毒上瘾和努力戒毒的事。几小时后，卡茨签署了诽谤罪起诉状。不到两天，《国家调查者》撤回那篇文章并致歉。
And on Tuesday, less than three weeks after the article was published, Mr. Katz said he had formed the American Playwriting Foundation, which will give out an annual prize of $45,000 for an unproduced play. In honor of Mr. Hoffman’s dogged pursuit of artistic truth, it will be called the Relentless Award.
周二，在那篇文章发表不到三周的时候，卡茨说他成立了美国剧本创作基金会，它每年将给一部未被拍摄的剧本发放4.5万美元的奖金。为了纪念霍夫曼对艺术真实孜孜不倦的追求，这个奖项将被命名为“坚持不懈奖”(Relentless Award)。
The foundation and the prize are being paid for by The Enquirer and its publisher, American Media Incorporated, under a settlement of the lawsuit, said Judd Burstein, the lawyer for Mr. Katz. As part of the agreement, The Enquirer has also bought a full-page advertisement in the main news section of The New York Times on Wednesday. In it, The Enquirer says it was duped by a person claiming to be the same Mr. Katz. Mr. Burstein provided the text of the ad.
卡茨的律师贾德·伯斯坦(Judd Burstein)说，依照和解协议，《国家调查者》和它的出版者美国媒体公司负责该基金会和该奖项的支出。作为协议的一部分，《国家调查者》还买下了周三《纽约时报》主要新闻版块的整面广告。在广告中，《国家调查者》说它被一个自称卡茨的人蒙骗了。伯斯坦提供了该广告的文本。
The amount of money being paid by The Enquirer will not be disclosed, Mr. Burstein said, adding, “It’s enough for the foundation to give out these grants for years to come.” On Tuesday, he formally filed papers to dismiss the lawsuit.
伯斯坦说，《国家调查者》赔偿的金额将不会公布，但是“它足够该基金会在未来很多年发放奖金”。周二，他正式申请撤诉。
He noted that Mr. Katz did not receive or seek any personal payments. Mr. Katz, 48, said he was trying to figure out what a meaningful settlement would be to a person as demanding as Mr. Hoffman. “It’s so awful and ludicrous,” he said. “We had talked so often that it’s a tragedy playwrights can’t survive being playwrights — about how nice it would be if you could make your rent and still have an occasional steak.”
他提到卡茨没有收到或寻求任何个人赔偿。48岁的卡茨说他当时努力思索什么样的和解方案对像霍夫曼这样高要求的人来说才够有意义。“这事太糟糕、太荒唐了，”他说，“我们过去经常谈起，剧作家靠写剧本无法养活自己，这真是个悲剧。我们说要是剧作家能付得起房租，偶尔还能吃上牛排那该有多好。”
Besides Mr. Katz, the selection committee will include the writers Eric Bogosian, John Patrick Shanley and Jonathan Marc Sherman.
除了卡茨，评选委员会将包括剧作家埃里克·博戈西安(Eric Bogosian)、约翰·帕特里克·尚利(John Patrick Shanley)和乔纳森·马克·谢尔曼(Jonathan Marc Sherman)。
Mr. Katz said he and Mr. Hoffman met about 15 years ago through friends in the film world, but became close when their children wound up in the same Greenwich Village school. They would often stop for breakfast after the school drop-off, Mr. Katz said, and one of Mr. Hoffman’s favorite pictures was of the two of them in the Waverly diner in December 2011.
卡茨说他和霍夫曼是大约15年前通过电影圈的朋友认识的，但是变成好朋友是在他们的孩子在格林威治村的同一所学校上学之后。卡茨说，他们经常在把孩子送到学校后一起吃早饭，还说2011年12月他们在韦弗利的小餐馆吃饭的照片是霍夫曼最喜欢的照片之一。
The actor’s final text messages were with Mr. Katz, inviting him to watch the second half of a Knicks game on the last evening of his life. Mr. Katz did not pick up the texts and respond until late that night, but he got no reply from Mr. Hoffman.
霍夫曼的最后几条短信是发给卡茨的，邀请卡茨在他生命的最后一晚一起观看尼克斯队的下半场比赛。卡茨没有看到那些短信，直到深夜才回复，但是他没有收到霍夫曼的回复。
“The fact that he wanted me to come over for the Knick game meant that he did not want to be doing the drugs, because he never did them in my presence,” Mr. Katz said. “He once said to me, ‘Addiction is when you do the thing you really, really most don’t want to be doing.’ He was rigorously sober and had an awful relapse.”
“他想让我过去看尼克斯队的比赛表明他不想吸毒，因为他从未在我面前吸过毒，”卡茨说，“他曾对我说，‘上瘾就是你做自己真的、真的最不想做的事情。’ 他曾经严格戒毒，后来又糟糕地复吸了。”
Most galling to him about The Enquirer article was the treachery of the “Katz” figure. “The issue was never me being outraged at being accused of being gay — we’re theater guys, who cares?” Mr. Katz said. “The issue was lying about the drugs, that I would betray my friend by telling confidences.”
《国家调查者》的文章最让他恼火的是“卡茨”这个人的背叛。“我从没因为被说成是同性恋而愤怒——我们都是电影圈的人，谁在乎呀？”卡茨说，“关键是在吸毒的问题上说谎，把我弄成那种背叛朋友、泄密的人。”
The Enquirer, which did not respond to a request for comment, has not publicly explained how it came to publish the story. Mr. Burstein said its lawyers described an honest mistake.
《国家调查者》没有对本报的评论请求做出回应，没有公开解释那个故事是怎么发表的。伯斯坦说该报的律师说那是无心之过。
“It sounds ridiculous,” Mr. Burstein said. “They did a search and found someone named David Katz who appeared to be the son of David’s father. They asked, ‘Are you the David Katz who is the playwright?’
“听起来很荒谬，”伯斯坦说，“他们做了点调查，找到一个名叫大卫·卡茨的人，他看上去似乎是大卫父亲的儿子。他们问，‘你是剧作家大卫·卡茨吗？’”
“They believed him. He sounded distraught. They couldn’t believe that someone would be so callous to say, ‘I’m the real David Katz.’
“他们相信了他的话。他听起来心烦意乱。他们无法相信有人能如此冷静地说，‘我真的是大卫·卡茨。’”
“From what I understand, it was one senior reporter who worked on it with some researchers. The reporter did the interview and was convinced it was the right person.”
“据我所知，这篇文章是一个高级记者和几个研究员一起写的。那个记者做了采访，他以为自己采访对了人。”
By any measure, it is a lightning reversal of events, which Mr. Katz attributed to insistence by friends that he immediately contact Mr. Burstein. “I probably would have just ignored it and it would have gotten worse and worse and worse,” Mr. Katz said.
不管怎么说，事态出现了飞快的逆转。卡茨说这归功于朋友们坚持让他马上联系伯斯坦。“我本来很可能忽略它，本来事情可能会变得越来越糟，”卡茨说。
As part of the settlement, The Enquirer has provided Mr. Burstein with contact details for the person it interviewed. He intends to sue him. “My goal is to have him living out of a cardboard box,” Mr. Burstein said.
作为协议的一部分，《国家调查者》给伯斯坦提供了他们采访的那个人的联系方式。他打算起诉那个人。“我的目标是把他从幕后揪出来，”伯斯坦说。
He paused for an instant. “I haven’t filed yet — I have to be sure that I have the right Katz.”
他停顿了一下。“我还没起诉——我得先确定我找对了人。”