An inspirational poster hangs above the Trump Tower desk of Hope Hicks, the 27-year-old press secretary for Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, squeezed in among the framed Time magazine covers of Trump and exuberant thank-you notes written in his inimitable scrawl (“Hopie — You’re the greatest!”).
27岁的霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)是唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统竞选的新闻秘书。在她位于特朗普大厦里的办公桌上方，挂着一幅励志海报，挤在满墙镶了边框的《时代》杂志封面（封面人物都是特朗普），以及他以独特笔迹亲自写下的许多热情洋溢的感谢信（“霍普，你是最棒的！”）中间。
“Fate whispers to the warrior, ‘You cannot withstand the storm,'” it reads. “And the warrior whispers back, ‘I am the storm.'”
“命运对勇士低语，‘你无法抵御风暴，’”海报上写着。“勇士低声回应，‘我就是风暴。’”
Hicks, a onetime champion lacrosse player who signed a Ford modeling contract as a teenager, had never worked in politics before last year, and her widest exposure had been as a co-star in a Nickelodeon children’s television special about golf.
希克斯打过长曲棍球，还赢过一次冠军；少女时代她曾签约福特模特经纪公司(Ford)，直到去年才首次涉足政治。她曾联合主演尼克洛迪恩儿童频道(Nickelodeon)的一个高尔夫专题节目，这是她此前影响最大的曝光。
Now she plays confidante and sometime gatekeeper to the presumptive Republican nominee for president and, improbably, serves as Trump’s sole liaison to the teeming national press corps.
如今，她是这位稳获共和党提名的总统候选人的密友，有时也是他的看门人；而且令人难以置信的是，她是特朗普与成群结队的国内媒体大军之间唯一的联络员。
Hillary Clinton employs a half-dozen battle-hardened media handlers who field hundreds of daily requests. Trump has Hicks, who was working for his daughter Ivanka’s luxury lines and for the Trump real estate brand when the candidate called her to his office in early 2015 and declared that she was joining his campaign.
希拉里·克林顿聘请了六位久经沙场的顾问应对媒体，他们每天都要处理数百条请求。而希克斯此前在特朗普女儿伊万卡(Ivanka Trump)的奢侈品牌任职，并为特朗普的房地产品牌工作。2015年初，这位候选人将她叫到自己的办公室，宣布她将加入自己的竞选团队。
“Mr. Trump sat her down and said, ‘This is your new job,'” said her mother, Caye Cavender Hicks. “It was a shocker.”
“特朗普先生请她坐下，然后说道，‘这是你的新工作，’”她母亲卡耶·卡温德尔·希克斯(Caye Cavender Hicks)回忆道。“这个消息太令人震惊了。”
Hope Hicks had trained at Hiltzik Strategies, the powerful public relations firm that represents Hollywood clients and corporate executives, before Ivanka Trump brought her in-house. She was commuting from an apartment she shared with her sister in Greenwich, Connecticut, above the dive bar where her father had his first beer at 18.
在伊万卡·特朗普将其招致麾下之前，霍普·希克斯曾在Hiltzik Strategies接受过培训。这是一家实力雄厚的公关公司，代理的客户不是来自好莱坞，就是企业高管。当时，希克斯与姐姐一起住在康涅狄格州格林尼治(Greenwich)的一套公寓，每天都要在家与办公室之间通勤；公寓楼下是一家廉价酒吧，她父亲刚满18岁时就是在那里有了人生的第一次啤酒体验。
Suddenly, she found herself a near-constant presence by Trump’s side, flying in his jet, living rent-free in a Trump-owned apartment and attending to his mercurial moods.
突然间，她发现自己常伴特朗普左右，坐着他的私人飞机飞来飞去，免费住在一套特朗普名下的公寓里，并且要时刻照顾他善变的心情。
She is arguably the least credentialed press secretary in the modern history of presidential politics. But for journalists who cover the campaign, she is sometimes the Jekyll to Trump’s Hyde, emailing angry complaints from her media-bashing boss (“dishonest”) and often concluding with her own polite signoff: “Best, Hope.”
她恐怕是现代总统竞选史上资历最浅的新闻秘书。但在那些报道此次大选的记者看来，她有时就是特朗普版海德先生的吉基尔（19世纪英国小说《化身博士》中一个善良温厚的医生，因服用了自己发明的一种药物，而变成一个名叫海德的凶残的人——编注），她的老板爱大肆抨击媒体，而她就得把那些愤怒的怨言（“不老实”之类的话）用邮件发给媒体，通常她会在邮件结尾处礼貌地加上一句：“祝好，霍普。”
Seemingly unfazed by her boss’ outbursts, she can detect the best moments for reporters to make requests — knowing, for instance, not to bother Trump while he is watching a major golf tournament.
她老板的暴脾气似乎并没有影响到她。她总是能抓到让记者提问的最佳时刻，而且深知什么时候不要去打扰特朗普，比如在他观看一场重要的高尔夫球赛时。
“Her most important role is her bond with the candidate,” said Paul Manafort, a veteran Republican adviser who, as of last week, had been put in charge of the campaign. “She totally understands him.”
“她最重要的作用在于她和这位候选人间的联系，”资深共和党顾问保罗•马纳福特(Paul Manafort)说道。自上周起，他开始全权掌管特朗普的竞选事务。“她完全了解他。”
Or, as Ivanka Trump said in an interview: “My father makes people earn his trust. She’s earned his trust.”
又或者如伊万卡·特朗普在一次采访中说的那样：“我父亲需要别人赢得他的信任。而她做到了。”
And not without some steeliness. Hicks remained in her role last week even as Trump fired Corey Lewandowski, his campaign manager and another early member of his team.
而且，还有顽强。上周，特朗普解雇了他的竞选经理科里·勒万多斯基(Corey Lewandowski)和团队里的另一名老成员，而希克斯守住了自己的位置。
Friends of Hicks say they are thrilled by her sudden rise, dismissing concerns that her ties to Trump could damage her nascent career. “She believes in him, his leadership and abilities, and she’s thrown herself completely into this,” said Michael Feldman, a prominent Democratic strategist and family friend. “I don’t think that ties her personally to everything that’s been said.”
希克斯的朋友们为她的突然升迁感到激动不已，并不担心她与特朗普的关系会毁了她刚刚起步的事业。“她相信他，相信他的领导和能力，她为这件事情倾尽了全力，”著名的民主党战略家、家族世交迈克尔·费德曼(Michael Feldman)说道。“我认为这并不能把她个人和这一切挂钩。”
But some say they are alarmed that Hicks is promoting, and defending, a candidate who has been denounced as a demagogue, a racist, a misogynist and even a fascist. In Greenwich, where her family is part of the civic firmament, the topic of her association with Trump can get touchy.
不过，也有人表示，他们对于希克斯竟然宣传和维护一个被谴责为煽动者、种族歧视分子、憎恶女性，甚至被称为法西斯分子的候选人感到担心。在格林尼治，她的家族颇有名望。因此，在那里，关于她和特朗普关系的问题会变得十分敏感。
“Believe me, there are times when I would like to voice my opinion,” said Drew Marzullo, a Greenwich town selectman and Democrat who is close with Hicks’ sister, Mary Grace. He recalled doing a double take after spotting Lewandowski and other Trump aides with the family at the Hall & Oates concert.
“相信我，有时候我也想发表我的看法，”德鲁·马祖罗(Drew Marzullo)说道。他是格林尼治城的市政管理委员会成员和民主党人，和希克斯的姐姐玛丽·格蕾丝(Mary Grace)关系很好。他回忆起看到勒万多斯基、特朗普的其他助手和希克斯一家出现在Hall & Oates音乐会时，自己难以置信的心情。
Still, he added, “It would be unfair for someone to judge Hope or the family based on her job.”
不过，他继而说道，“因为霍普的工作而去评判她或她的家人是不公平的。”
In fact, Hicks is the third generation of her family to represent a powerful but highly controversial client. Her grandfather led public relations for Texaco during the 1970s oil crisis.
事实上，希克斯家的前两代人也曾代理过实力强大但极具争议的客户。在20世纪70年代的石油危机中，她祖父是解决德士古石油公司公关问题的领头人。
Her father, Paul B. Hicks III, represented a major tobacco company in Connecticut and later was the top communications executive for the National Football League, where he dealt with scandals over player safety and the Patriots’ deflated footballs.
她的父亲保罗·B·希克斯三世曾是康涅狄格州一家大型烟草公司的代表，后担任全国橄榄球联盟(National Football League)的传讯负责人。在任期间，他曾处理过球员安全问题和爱国者队足球放气的丑闻。
Her establishment pedigree aside, Hicks does not fit the part of the typical campaign press secretary, spinning reporters and gossiping over expensed drinks on the trail. Among journalists, Hicks is not known to wrangle, cajole or mingle, serving as more of a conduit for her intensely media-savvy boss, who likes to act as his own chief spokesman.
且不说她的家族成就，希克斯并不符合一个典型竞选新闻发言人的形象：引导记者的报道角度，或者在竞选路途中，一边喝着可以报销的酒水一边与人八卦。在记者心中，希克斯不争不吵，不骗人也不和谁交好；更多时候，她只是为那位深谙媒体的老板扮演着联系人的角色，毕竟特朗普喜欢做自己的首席发言人。
Unlike her Clinton counterparts, who take pains to shape their candidate’s image, Hicks is not active on Twitter and does not show up on cable talk shows. Contacted for this article, she declined to be interviewed, insisting that she did not want to draw attention away from her candidate.
克林顿的发言人们不辞辛劳地塑造着竞选人形象，希克斯却大不相同，她在Twitter上并不活跃，也没有参加过电视谈话节目。本文联系她做采访，却遭到拒绝，她坚称不希望转移人们对她的竞选人的关注。
Reporters praise Hicks for her poise amid a chaotic campaign. But some say that she can be unresponsive to questions, a habit so pervasive that it spawned a mocking, anonymous Twitter account, @HicksNoComment. Political reporters say Hicks rarely interacts with them at rallies, preferring to communicate by text or telephone.
记者们称赞希克斯在这么混乱的选举中还能保持镇静。但是，也有人说她有时候对于提问反应冷淡，因为老这样，结果Twitter上出现了一个匿名账户@HicksNoComment（希克斯无可奉告）。时政记者说，希克斯在大选集会上很少与他们互动，而是更喜欢通过手机短信或电话与记者沟通。
Hicks — perhaps the only campaign press secretary to have been photographed as a teenager by fashion photographer Bruce Weber, in a campaign for Naturalizer shoes — favors Burberry trench coats and heels, a break from the scruffy ranks of harried campaign operatives. One reporter recalled staggering into a New Hampshire rally after a snowstorm, soaked in water and ice, only to find Hicks dressed impeccably, her makeup unmussed.
在少女时代，希克斯曾为宣传Naturalizer牌的鞋子与时尚摄影师布鲁斯·韦伯(Bruce Weber)有过合作，她可能是唯一一位有这种经历的大选新闻发言人。和那些为了竞选忙忙碌碌、无心打理外表的人大不相同，她喜欢巴宝莉(Burberry)的风衣和高跟鞋。一位记者回忆称，他在一次暴雪后跌跌撞撞地跑去参加新罕布什尔的一场集会，当时自己全身上下都是冰雪，却发现希克斯穿得一丝不苟，妆一点儿都没花。
“I’m lucky to have her,” Trump said in a telephone interview last week. “She’s got very good judgment. She will often give advice, and she’ll do it in a very low-key manner, so it doesn’t necessarily come in the form of advice. But it’s delivered very nicely.”
“我很幸运能和她共事，”特朗普在上周的电话采访中说。“她的判断力很好。她总是以一种非常低调的方式给我一些意见，所以有时候听上去并不像意见。她表达得很巧妙。”
Did he have qualms about hiring a campaign spokeswoman with no political background? “Well, I have a lot of political experience, so I wasn’t really concerned about it,” Trump said.
聘请一位没有过从政经验的女竞选发言人，特朗普曾有过疑虑吗？“这个嘛，我的从政经验丰富，所以并不是特别担心这个问题，”特朗普回答。