Washington—Let’s just get this out of the way: There are other matters of consequence going on in the world.
华盛顿——先把话说明了：世界上重要的事情不止这一件。
But in these fractious times, a series of puppy photos sent by none other than the fun-loving scamps at the Central Intelligence Agency qualifies as a feel-good, stick-it-to-the-man moment, shared by thousands of people who are marooned in office jobs. Meet Lulu, the black Labrador retriever and free spirit who bucked expectations and flunked out of the C.I.A.’s explosive detection “puppy class.”
但在这个充满戾气的时代，美国中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)里风趣的淘气员工们发布的一连串小狗照片算得上展示了一个“我感觉真好”、要“向老板说不”的时刻，数千名受困于办公室的人们分享了它们。这是露露(Lulu)，一只黑色拉布拉多寻回猎犬、敢于与期望对抗的自由精灵，它从中情局爆炸物侦测“狗狗班”退学了。
Maybe it was her shiny coat that made Lulu’s story ricochet around the internet. Maybe it was her soft brown eyes. Or maybe her story just sounds familiar to any American who has experienced workplace ennui: She underwent rigorous training for a daily grind job and decided that sniffing out bombs was not her calling. (And who actually wants that job, anyway?)
她的故事在网上流传开来或许是因为她有着油亮的皮毛，也或许是因为她有着温柔的棕色眼睛。还可能是因为她的故事让许多曾对办公室心生厌倦的美国人感同身受：她接受了苛严训练只是为了一个日常的枯燥差事，而她最终决定，嗅出炸弹并非她的使命。（话说回来，又有谁真的想要那份工作呢？）
The photos were a rare attempt at a cutesy moment from a secretive agency better known for much darker stories. The number of C.I.A. personnel killed in Afghanistan now rivals the number of agency operatives who died in the wars in Vietnam and Laos decades ago. The agency has pushed for extended powers to carry out covert drone strikes in active war zones. So even the course load for its bomb dogs is high-stakes and rigorous.
对于这样一个更多是以更黑暗的故事著名的秘密机构来说，这些照片是在一个讨好时刻里的罕见尝试。中情局在阿富汗的遇难人员现已和数十年前在越南、老挝战争中机构特工的遇难人数相当。中情局在扩大自己的权力，想要在战争活跃区发动秘密无人机攻击。因此，连搜爆犬的工作负荷也是风险极高、严格苛刻的。
“A few weeks into training, Lulu began to show signs that she wasn’t interested in detecting explosive odors,” read a statement on the C.I.A. website. “Usually it lasts for a day, maybe two.”
“训练几周后，露露开始表现出她对侦测爆炸性气体不感兴趣，”中情局网站上的一则声明说，“通常，这种表现只持续一或两天。”
Because dogs can detect about 19,000 explosive scents, the C.I.A.’s prospective bomb sniffers face a six-week, seven-days-a-week training course in which they learn to identify threats. The dogs then undergo one-on-one training for 10 weeks with their handlers.
因为狗可以探测出大约19,000种爆炸性气体，中情局的预备嗅探犬要经过为期六周、一周七天的训练课程，学习如何识别危险。接着，警犬会在各自的训导员手下接受为期10周的一对一训练。
A successful graduate learns how to detect explosives in cars and luggage. The 60-hour canine workweek — part of a career that typically lasts seven or eight years — can include shifts with the United States Park Police, local police departments and the Drug Enforcement Administration.
成功完成课程的警犬将习得如何检测出车内和行李中的爆炸物。60小时的犬类工作周——作为这份通常持续七八年的工作的一部分——包括在美国公园警察署、地区警察局以及美国缉毒局轮班。
On Thursday, the C.I.A. (barely) relaxed its typically tight-lipped stance to relay a few words about its infamous dropout. Lulu, the agency wrote, was a year and a half old, came to the C.I.A. from Susquehanna Service Dogs, was the smallest of six dogs in her class and was being trained for the Fairfax County Police Department in Virginia.
周四，中情局（勉强算是）放松了一向守口如瓶的态度，传达了几句关于这位“声名狼藉”的退学生的信息。中情局写道，露露一岁半时从萨斯奎汉纳服务犬训练中心来到中情局，作为她班上的六只警犬中年纪最小的一只，为服务弗吉尼亚州费尔法克斯县警察局而接受训练。
Although a life of intrigue was not in Lulu’s professional future, she was still afforded the sort of professional courtesy that most two-legged members of society can only dream to receive from their human resources departments. A “doggy psychologist” was brought in to assess the situation. Extra breaks, treats and rest were provided.
虽然与阴谋相关的生活并非露露的职业前途，她也还是享受到了社会里那些两条腿的员工只能梦想从他们的人力资源部门那里享受到的职场礼遇。一位“狗狗心理医生”参与了该情况的评估。露露也被提供了额外的休假、款待以及休息时间。
This was clearly not the life plan Lulu had envisioned for herself, and this is fine.
这显然不是露露想要过的生活，但没有关系。
In any case, Lulu soon had a new home: She was adopted by her handler and now spends her unemployment “sniffing out rabbits” and hanging out with another dog named Harry. (No word on his professional background.)
无论如何，露露很快就有了一个新家：它被她的训导员收养了，现在把失业的时间都用来“嗅出兔子”，或是与一只名叫哈里(Harry)的狗玩耍（对哈里的职业背景无可奉告）。
Officials at the C.I.A. wished this very good dog all the best in the future.
中情局的官员都希望这只很棒的小狗未来一切顺利。