Large banks and trading firms are frantically trying to determine whether they have fallen victim to a suspected commodities fraud emanating from the giant Qingdao Port in northeast China.
一些大型银行和交易公司正在急切开展行动，希望确认自己是否成为了一起涉嫌大宗商品欺诈的案件的受害者。这起案件发生在中国东北部大港口青岛。
Citigroup and several other big Western banks are concerned that their loans may lack the appropriate collateral of big stockpiles of copper and aluminum at the port. The banks have inspectors on the ground who are trying to assess whether enough of the metals are there.
花旗集团(Citigroup)等大型西方银行担心，对于它们已经发放的贷款来说，可能缺乏储存在青岛港的铜、铝等大宗商品这类恰当的抵押品。这些银行已经派出检查人员到青岛港，希望估算那里是否有足够多的金属库存量。
The worry stems from suspicions that a Chinese company pledged the same collateral for multiple loans. Chinese authorities are investigating the matter.
引发这种担心的原因是，一家中国公司涉嫌用同一批抵押品反复贷款。目前，中国当局正在调查此事。
The case could have broad repercussions for the commodities market and the Chinese economy. Banks have funneled billions of dollars into the Chinese economy through these murky transactions, and commodities prices have been falling over concerns that the lending will dry up.
这个案子可能会给大宗商品市场和中国经济造成大范围的不良影响。银行通过这些灰色交易注入中国经济的资金数以十亿美元计；而由于担心这种贷款将会枯竭，大宗商品价格已经在下跌。
Western banks, including Citigroup, are bracing for any potential fallout.
对于可能出现的任何后果，花旗集团等西方银行正在做应对的准备。
Just months ago, Citigroup fell victim to a multimillion-dollar fraud in Mexico. If the Qingdao developments hurt the bank, regulators and shareholders are likely to press it to explain why its controls failed again.
仅仅几个月前，花旗集团才在墨西哥一宗规模不小的欺诈案中受损。如果它又沦为了青岛这次事件的受害者，监管机构和股东很可能会要求它解释，为什么管控不力的状况再次出现。
Chinese companies are at risk, too.
中国企业也有可能蒙受损失。
Citic Resources, part of the state-controlled conglomerate Citic Group, plunged nearly 10 percent on Tuesday after it disclosed that it might be affected by an investigation into stockpiles of metals held at the port. The shares recovered on Wednesday.
本周二，中信资源(Citic Resources)表示，这起案件的调查可能会影响它在青岛港存储的金属，随后该公司股价暴跌了近10%；这只股票周三有所反弹。中信资源是中国国有企业中信集团的下属公司。
The potential fraud is linked to an opaque corner of China’s financial system that has grown substantially in recent years, bringing huge amounts of capital into the country. Many Chinese companies and investors, struggling to secure traditional loans from the state-dominated banking sector, have instead turned to alternative, unregulated financing methods involving imports of materials like copper, aluminum and iron ore.
这起涉嫌欺诈的案件指向了中国金融体系一个不透明的角落；这方面的业务近年来大幅增长，给中国注入了大量资金。很多中国企业和投资者难以从国有银行获得传统的抵押贷款，于是采用了一个不受监管的替代融资方式，它和铜、铝、铁矿石等材料的进口有关。
These commodities financing deals are part of a growing number of nontraditional lending activities that have pushed credit in China to levels that are raising fears among investors and analysts. Jonathan Cornish, the head of North Asia bank ratings at Fitch Ratings, estimates that total outstanding credit in China rose to more than 220 percent of gross domestic product last year, up from 130 percent in 2008.
这些大宗商品融资交易，是越来越多的非传统贷款业务中的一种，它们已经将中国的信贷推向了一个让投资者和分析师感到担忧的水平。惠誉国际评级(Fitch Ratings)的北亚银行评级业务负责人乔纳森·科尼什(Jonathan Cornish)估计，中国的未偿信贷总额去年已经增长到国内生产总值(GDP)的220%以上，2008年时这个数字为130%。
A typical commodities financing deal works like this: Copper is imported using letters of credit, warehoused in duty-free zones and pledged as collateral for cheap bank loans. The loan proceeds are used by the importer to speculate in higher-yielding, short-term investments. When the letter of credit comes due, the importer then either sells the commodity or the investment product.
大宗商品融资交易通常是这样进行的：用信用证进口铜，放在免税区的仓库里，然后把它们当作抵押品，从银行获得低成本贷款。进口商把贷来的资金用来投机，放在收益较高的短期投资项目中。信用证到期时，进口商就要么出售这些大宗商品，要么出售投资产品。
One such importer in Qingdao has drawn particular scrutiny. Last Friday, Qingdao Port International, the biggest port operator in the Chinese city, announced that the authorities had begun investigating a suspected fraud related to the aluminum and copper stored in its warehouses. A day earlier, a report in The 21st Century Business Herald, a Chinese-language newspaper, identified the company under investigation as Decheng Mining.
一家这样的青岛进口商已经招致专门的调查。上周五，青岛最大的港口运营商青岛港国际公司宣布，当局已经开始调查一宗涉嫌欺诈的案件，和存储在该公司仓库中的铝和铜有关。此前一天，中文报纸《21世纪经济报道》称，遭受调查的公司是德诚矿业。
The report said Decheng Mining was suspected by the authorities of having pledged the same stocks of the metals — about 100,000 tons of aluminum and 2,000 to 3,000 tons of copper — as collateral for multiple loans, amassing bank debt exceeding 1 billion renminbi ($160 million). Phone calls and emails to Decheng’s parent company, Dezheng Resources, went unanswered on Wednesday.
该报道称，当局怀疑德诚矿业用同一批金属——大约10万吨铝、2000到3000吨铜——作为抵押品，反复多次贷款，该公司的银行债务累计逾10亿元人民币。本周三我们曾通过电话和电邮联系德诚公司的母公司德正资源，但无人应答。
The figures in the Decheng case are not huge compared with China’s overall imports of commodities. But the concern is that such schemes may be broader, involving more than just one company at one port.
与中国的大宗商品进口总量相比，德诚一案的数字并不大。但让人担心的是，这种做法在中国可能比较普遍，不止一家公司在一个港口这么操作。
While Shanghai is China’s main port for the importing of metals like copper, volumes in Qingdao are substantial. Qingdao’s port ranks as the country’s fifth-largest in terms of cargo handled, with around 12 percent of China’s metal ore and 15 percent of crude oil shipments by volume, according to Qingdao Port International. But the trade there may not be regulated to the extent that it is in Shanghai, where the Shanghai Futures Exchange maintains its official copper warehouses.
虽然中国进口铜等金属的主要港口是上海，但通过青岛进口的金属量也十分可观。青岛港国际公司的资料称，青岛港的货运吞吐量居全国第五，全国大约有12%的金属矿石和15%的原油经过这个港口。但这里的贸易所受的监管可能不像上海那么严；上海期货交易所有自己指定的铜仓库。
Shares in Qingdao Port are down around 4 percent from their Hong Kong trading debut last week. The company has said that business is continuing as normal and the metal stockpiles subject to the investigation “account for an immaterial proportion of the total annual throughput of the group.”
自从上周在香港挂牌交易以来，青岛港的股价下跌了4%左右。该公司负责人表示，他们仍在正常经营，遭受调查的金属库存和“集团的年度总吞吐量相比微不足道”。
The banks and trading companies have sent inspectors to the port to try to assess the size of the stockpiles. But the port operator was not giving them access until its own officials have done their inspection, according to a person briefed on the situation at the port who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter.
银行和交易公司已派检查人员前往青岛港核查库存。但一位无权公开谈论此事的知情人士表示，港口运营商在自己的管理人员完成库存检查之前，是不会让他们进入的。
If wider fraud is unearthed, banks will probably have to scale back their commodities-related lending in China. That in turn could cause the prices of certain metals to drop and lead to a decline in credit in the Chinese economy. Goldman Sachs estimates that as much as $160 billion has flowed into China through commodities-backed loans since 2010.
如果发现存在更大规模的欺诈行为，银行将可能不得不缩减它们在中国开展的大宗商品相关贷款。这又可能会反过来导致某些金属的价格下跌，致使中国经济的信贷减少。高盛(Goldman Sachs)估计，自2010年以来，通过大宗商品担保流入中国的贷款金额已经高达1600亿美元。
As Citigroup assesses any damage, it is zeroing in on commodities loans to the Mercuria Energy Group, a Swiss commodities trading firm. Citigroup lent money to Mercuria secured with copper and aluminum apparently stored in Qingdao.
花旗集团在评估受损程度的时候，把侧重点放在了提供给瑞士大宗商品交易公司摩科瑞能源集团(Mercuria Energy Group)的大宗商品贷款上。摩科瑞获得花旗贷款时所用的抵押品，看来就是存储在青岛的铜和铝。
On May 28, Mercuria informed Citigroup that improprieties might have taken place at the metals warehouses, according to a person briefed on the loans who spoke on condition of anonymity. If Mercuria borrowed the money on the basis of nonexistent commodities, Citigroup could have the right to demand that Mercuria repay the loan. If Mercuria did that, Citigroup would probably not suffer a significant loss. Mercuria declined to comment.
一位不愿透露姓名的知情人士表示，5月28日，摩科瑞告知花旗集团，这些金属仓库可能存在不当行为。如果摩科瑞用子虚乌有的大宗商品为担保去借钱，花旗集团就有权要求摩科瑞偿还相应的贷款。如果摩科瑞还了钱，花旗集团可能不会蒙受太大亏损。摩科瑞拒绝置评。
“Citi is aware of reports of issues at the Qingdao port in China,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, said in an emailed statement. “To the extent Citi’s clients are affected, Citi will work closely with the relevant authorities, warehousing companies and clients to resolve the matter.”
“花旗知道关于中国青岛港问题的报道，”花旗集团发言人丹妮尔·罗梅罗-阿波希洛斯(Danielle Romero-Apsilos)在一份电邮声明中说。“只要花旗的客户受到影响，花旗集团就会密切配合相关部门、仓储企业和客户解决问题。”
The situation in Qingdao could have uncomfortable parallels for Citigroup.
对花旗来说，像青岛这样令人不安的状况，同时还有几起需要应对。
Loan collateral was the underlying problem in the Mexican fraud involving a Citigroup subsidiary, Banamex. In that case, the bank discovered that as much as $400 million of assets pledged to Citigroup did not exist.
花旗集团的子公司墨西哥国民银行(Banamex)不久前卷入了该国发生的一桩欺诈案，那起欺诈案的主要纰漏也出在贷款抵押品上：该银行发现，抵押给花旗集团的高达4亿美元的资产并不存在。
The bank also suffered a setback this year after it failed a crucial regulatory stress test. As a result, the government did not approve its plans to increase dividends and stock buybacks.
花旗集团今年还遭遇了另外一个挫折：它没能通过一个非常重要的监管压力测试，因此政府没有批准其提高股息和回购股票的计划。
If the bank were to lose money from its Chinese commodities loans, it would deepen concerns that Citigroup cannot properly monitor its sprawling operations across the globe.
如果花旗集团在中国的大宗商品贷款上赔了钱，人们就会更加担心，它可能无法在全球范围内妥善监控其庞大的业务网络。
Other large Western banks are active in the metals-backed lending in China, including Standard Chartered, BNP Paribas, Natixis and ABN Amro.
其他西方大银行也在中国积极开展金属担保贷款业务，比如渣打银行(Standard Chartered)、法国巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)、法国外贸银行(Natixis)和荷兰银行(ABN Amro)等。
“We recognize that there are currently issues in China around commodity financing, which we are monitoring,” Tan Hsueh Mei, a spokeswoman for Standard Chartered, said in an emailed statement. “We are working closely with our clients. However, as investigations are ongoing, we are not able to comment further.”
“我们意识到，在中国的大宗商品融资目前出现了一些问题，我们正在观察这个领域。”渣打银行发言人谭雪美（音）在一份电子邮件声明中说。“我们正在与客户密切合作。但是由于调查正在进行，我们无法进一步置评。”
Standard Bank, a South African lender, said in an announcement last Thursday that it had “commenced investigations into potential irregularities at the port” in Qingdao, and that it would “be working with the local authorities as part of its investigations.” The bank, which is 20 percent owned by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, said its commodities trading business was carried out by its London subsidiary, a unit that is 60 percent owned by Industrial and Commercial Bank of China.
南非标准银行(Standard Bank)上周四在公告中表示，它已经“开始调查在青岛港发生的潜在违规行为”，并表示“与地方当局合作是调查的组成部分”。标准银行表示，这些大宗商品交易业务是其伦敦子公司开展的。中国工商银行持有标准银行20%的股份，并且持有这家伦敦子公司60%的股份。