DOTHAN, Ala. — On a humid summer day in 1972, Hillary Rodham walked into this town's new private academy, a couple of cinder-block classrooms erected hurriedly amid fields of farmland, and pretended to be someone else.
阿拉巴马州多森——1972年夏季潮湿的一天，希拉里·罗德姆(Hillary Rodham)隐去真实身份，走进了这座小镇新开的私立学院。混凝土砖草草砌成的几间教室，矗立在一片农田里。
Playing down her flat Chicago accent, she told the school's guidance counselor that her husband had just taken a job in Dothan, that they were a churchgoing family and that they were looking for a school for their son.
她努力不让自己平缓的芝加哥口音引起注意，对学校的辅导员说，她丈夫刚刚在多森找了份工作，想为儿子物色一所学校，他们是那种常去教堂的家庭。
The future Clinton, then a 24-year-old law student, was working forMarian Wright Edelman, the civil rights activist and prominent advocate for children. Edelman had sent her to Alabama to help prove that the Nixon administration was not enforcing the legal ban on granting tax-exempt status to so-called segregation academies, the estimated 200 private academies that sprang up in the South to cater to white families after a1969 Supreme Court decisionforced public schools to integrate.
她就是后来的希拉里·克林顿。当时她24岁，是一名法律系学生，正在为公民权利活动家和杰出的儿童权益倡导者玛丽安·赖特·埃德尔曼(Marian Wright Edelman)工作。法律禁止实行种族隔离的所谓“学院”享受免税待遇，埃德尔曼派她到阿拉巴马州收集证据，证明尼克松政府没有执行这一法律禁令。最高法院1969年的一项裁决，责令公立学校实行种族融合，之后南方涌现出了大约200所这种迎合白人家庭的私立学院。
Her mission was simple: Establish whether the Dothan school was discriminating based on race.
她的任务很简单：核实多森(Dothan)的这所学院是否存在种族歧视。
“It was dangerous, being outsiders in these rural areas, talking about segregation academies,” said Cynthia G. Brown, a longtime education advocate who did work similar to Clinton's.
“在这些农村地区，外地人谈论种族隔离学校，是很危险的，”长期维护教育权益的辛西娅·G·布朗(Cynthia G. Brown)说。她曾经做过类似克林顿这样的工作。
She added, “We thought we were part of the civil rights struggle, definitely.”
她还说，“毫无疑问，我们把自己视为民权斗争的一部分。”
As issues of race and civil rights have dominated Clinton's 2016 campaign, and as Black Lives Matter activists have demanded more from her, she has frequently talked about her work for Edelman's Children's Defense Fund, making her advocacy for children the backbone of the biographical story she tells voters. But her experience going undercover in Dothan is a little-known aspect of that work, one she devoted just under 300 words to in her 562-page memoir, “Living History.”
随着种族和公民权利问题成为克林顿2016年竞选活动的重大议题，“黑人的命也是命”运动(Black Lives Matter)的参与者也对她提出了更多的要求，克林顿开始时常谈及自己在埃德尔曼领导的儿童保护基金会(Children’s Defense Fund)的工作，她在对选民讲述自身经历时，把维护儿童权利作为了重中之重。但在这个方面，她去多森暗访调查的事情比较鲜为人知。在她长达562页的回忆录《亲历历史》(Living History)中，对这件事的描写不到300单词。
A look at Clinton's efforts that summer, through archives and interviews with more than 50 local officials, civil rights activists and people who knew her, reveals a summer job that was both out of character for the bookish law student and a moment of awakening.
通过查阅档案和采访50多位当地官员、民权人士，以及认识她的人，我们发现，克林顿在那个夏天的活动，不仅不符合这个书卷气的法律系学生的个性，而且对她也是一个觉醒的时刻。
Until her trip to Alabama, she had been relatively sheltered, her activism mostly confined to Ivy League debates and campus turmoil. Like many white activists from the North who traveled south to help on civil rights issues, Clinton confronted a different world in Dothan, separate and unequal, and a sting of injustice she had previously only read about.
在前往阿拉巴马州之前，克林顿所处的环境相对安全，她的行动大多局限在常春藤盟校(Ivy League)的辩论和校园里的骚动当中。就像前往南方伸张公民权利的很多来自北方的白人活动人士一样，克林顿在多森面对的是一个不同的世界，那里存在的隔离、不平等，以及她从未亲眼见过的不公，令她感到刺痛。
“I went through my role-playing, asking questions about the curriculum and makeup of the student body,” Clinton wrote in “Living History.” “I was assured that no black students would be enrolled.”
“我装作家长，询问课程安排和学生的组成，”克林顿在《亲历历史》中写道。“他们向我保证，不会录取黑人学生。”
Segregation Persists
种族隔离仍然存在
In 1972, Edelman's Washington Research Project, which later became the Children's Defense Fund, and other groups published a seminal report, “It's Not Over in the South: School Desegregation in 43 Southern Cities 18 Years After Brown.” That year, an estimated 535,000 students attended private schools in the South, compared with 25,000 in 1966.
1972年，埃德尔曼的华盛顿研究项目(Washington Research Project)——儿童保护基金会的前身——连同其他组织公布了意义重大的报告：《南方仍未摆脱种族歧视：布朗案后18年，43座南方城市校内去隔离化现状》(It’s Not Over in the South: School Desegregation in 43 Southern Cities 18 Years After Brown)。那一年，南方地区约有53.5万名学生进入私立学校学习，而在1966年时只有2.5万名。
Clinton was one of a handful of young researchers and interns who worked in Washington reviewing documents, looking into the schools that had been granted tax exemptions, and coordinating with activists and lawyers in the South who had been at the forefront of integration efforts.
包括克林顿在内的一些年轻研究员及实习生，在华盛顿开展工作，查阅文件，调查获得免税资格的学校，并与南方的活动人士及律师相配合。他们处于融合工作的最前沿。
After Clinton spent several weeks studying the issue and establishing relationships in Atlanta and Alabama, she and other researchers were sent to different parts of the South to gather data and report firsthand on the private schools. They delivered their findings to Edelman's and other advocacy groups that were trying to pressure the Nixon administration.
克林顿花了数周时间研究该问题，并在亚特兰大和阿拉巴马州建立了人际关系。之后，她和其他研究人员被派往南方的不同地区，收集数据，汇报有关这些私立学校的第一手资料。他们将研究结果提交给埃德尔曼领导的机构，及其他试图向尼克松政府施压的倡导团体。
Clinton declined requests for an interview about her efforts to investigate segregation academies. But historical documents, descriptions of her work from friends and from others engaged in the issue, and Clinton's writings and public comments suggest that her trip to Dothan took her far out of her comfort zone.
克林顿拒绝就她调查种族隔离学校的工作接受采访。但历史文献，以及朋友和其他相关研究人员对她所做工作的叙述，以及克林顿的作品和公开评论显示，多森之行使她远远走出了自己的舒适区。
In Dothan, Clinton most likely stayed at the Holiday Inn on Ross Clark Circle, since locally owned hotels might have been suspicious of a single woman with black acquaintances, several people who did the same work said. While Clinton favored corduroy bell-bottoms for casual wear, the dress code for the investigative work called for conservative blouses and skirts, her colleagues said.
几名做过类似工作的人表示，在多森，克林顿最常住的是位于罗斯克拉克环路的假日酒店(Holiday Inn)，因为当地人拥有的酒店，可能会对与黑人相识的单身女性起疑心。她的同事表示，虽然克林顿那时喜欢穿灯芯绒喇叭裤这样的休闲装，但调查工作的着装要求规定，必须穿保守的衬衫和裙子。
She drove over the railroad tracks near downtown, east of Park Avenue, to the black part of town. There, she met local contacts who told her over a lunch of sweetened ice tea and burgers “that many of the school districts in the area were draining local public schools of books and equipment to send to the so-called academies, which they viewed as the alternatives for white students,” she wrote in “Living History.”
克林顿开车穿过位于公园大道以东闹市区附近的铁路，前往该镇的黑人聚居区。克林顿在《亲历历史》中写道，她在那里与当地的联系人碰面，后者会一边吃午餐（加糖冰茶和汉堡）一边告诉她：“该地区的很多学区，将当地公立学校的书本和教学器材送往了所谓的学院，他们认为这些学校是白人学生的替代选项。”
Blending In
融入
With a nuclear plant under construction on the nearby Chattahoochee River, along with the Army base at Fort Rucker, outsiders were moving to Dothan, a city of 37,000 then, named after Genesis 37:17: “They have gone away, for I heard them say, `Let us go to Dothan.' ”
那时候，因为附近的查特胡奇河边正在建一座核电站，以及拉克尔堡的陆军基地，外来人口纷纷搬往当时人口3.7万人的多森市。这个城市的名字出自圣经，在《创世纪》37章17节里有一句，“他们已经走了，我听见他们说要往多森去。’”
The local real estate agents, the bankers, the Baptist pastors and even the elected officials encouraged new families — if they were white and Christian — to consider Houston Academy, the new private academy just outside town that was able to operate because the IRS granted the school tax-exempt status, according to several former students.
当地的地产经纪人、银行家、浸礼会基督教牧师，甚至包括民选的官员都鼓励新来的家庭——如果他们是白人和基督徒的话——考虑让孩子上城外新建的休斯敦中学。这所私立中学之所以能运营下去，是因为美国国税局给了它免税资格，几名曾经在这里上学的人表示。
Clinton does not name the school in her book, but according to public records and tax filings, Houston Academy was the only private school founded in Dothan at the time that had requested and received a tax exemption. People who worked on the issue in Alabama then said the school would have been Houston Academy.
克林顿没有在自己的书中提到具体的学校名字，但是公开记录和税务文件显示，休斯敦中学是多森当时成立的唯一一个申请了税务减免并被赋予这一资格的私立学校。当时在阿拉巴马州从事相关工作的人表示，那所学校应该就是休斯敦中学。
The summer Clinton was in Dothan, the pages of the local paper, The Dothan Eagle, erupted with editorials and angry letters from readers concerned about the effects of school integration. “The arbitrary, compulsory integration of black and white children in the classrooms in massive numbers simply does not work,” read an editorial titled “School Integration Becomes Intolerable.”
克林顿待在多森的那个夏天，当地报纸《多森鹰报》(The Dothan Eagle)刊发了很多社论和愤怒的读者来信，对学校种族融合的影响表示担忧。“武断、强制地让大批白人和黑人孩子在教室内进行融合，这行不通，”一篇名为《学校种族融合变得让人无法容忍》的社论写道。
In order to receive a tax exemption, Houston Academy was required to place an ad in The Eagle publicizing its “open enrollment” policy. School officials told The Birmingham News in 1970, “No black students have been accepted because no black students applied.”
为了获得税务减免资格，休斯敦中学被要求在《多森鹰报》上刊登一则广告，宣传其“开放性招生”政策。该校几名领导曾在1970年接受《伯明翰新闻报》(The Birmingham News)采访时表示，“学校一直没有黑人学生，是因为没有黑人学生来申请入学。”
Bob Moore, the original headmaster at Houston Academy, described the school in a recent interview as “just three slabs of concrete and a couple side walls” when Clinton visited.
休斯敦中学最早的校长鲍勃·摩尔(Bob Moore)最近接受采访时表示，当年克林顿来到期间，休斯敦中学“只有三块混凝土板和两面墙”。
Moore and his wife, Dollie, who edited the school's yearbook, The Cavalier, still live in their ranch-style home near Houston Academy, now anelite college preparatory school. “I'm not saying it didn't happen,” Moore said of Clinton's account. “But I am saying I know nothing about it.”
摩尔和他的妻子多利现在还居住在靠近休斯敦中学的那座牧场风格的住宅里，多利曾负责编辑休斯敦中学年刊《骑士》(Cavalier)。该校现在已经是一座精英大学预科学校。“不是说这事没发生过，”摩尔指的是克林顿在书中讲述的事。“但我对此一无所知。”
Marty Olliff, an associate professor of history and director of the Wiregrass Archives at Troy University's Dothan campus, said he did not doubt Clinton's story but suggested that the exchange at the school would have been less direct than what she has described in her book and on the campaign trail.
特洛伊大学(Troy University)多森分校怀尔格拉斯档案馆主任、历史学副教授马蒂·奥利夫(Marty Olliff)表示，他对克林顿的描述没有怀疑，但他表示，在该校的这种交流可能没有她在书里和竞选活动中描述的那么直白。
What would have kept black people out “would have been the tuition,” Olliff said. “Not `you're black, you can't come in.' ”
“学费就会”让黑人无法入校，奥利夫说。“而不是‘你是黑人，你不能进这个学校。’”
D. Taylor Flowers, the chairman of the board of Houston Academy, whose father was a founding board member, was in the ninth grade at the school (which locals call “HA,” jokingly saying it stands for “holy Anglo”) when Clinton visited. “I've heard the story, and I don't think Hillary Clinton made it up,” he said over lunch in Dothan.
休斯敦中学校董会主席D·泰勒·弗劳尔斯(D. Taylor Flowers)当年在该校（当地人称这所学校为“HA”，戏称它代表着“神圣的盎格鲁”）上九年级，他父亲是该校创始董事会成员。“我听说过那件事，我不认为是希拉里·克林顿编造出来的，”身在多森的他一边吃午餐一边说。
The school was founded to prepare students for college, not as a segregation academy, Flowers said. But, he added, “I would be disingenuous if I said integration didn't have anything to do with” parents' enrolling their children in Houston Academy. “Integration was a huge social change for us.”
弗劳尔斯表示，开设这所学校是为了帮助学生为考大学做准备，不是为了进行种族隔离。不过他也表示，“如果我说”父母们让孩子上休斯敦中学“跟种族融合一点关系也没有，那也是不诚实的”，“对我们来说，种族融合是个重大的社会变迁”。
Over in a Minute
很快就结束了
Clinton spent part of that summer working on the issue of segregation academies, and only a couple of days in Dothan. But in many ways, her work on segregation academies best encapsulated her “commitment to pragmatism” in the struggle for equal rights, as her college adviser at Wellesley, Alan H. Schechter, described it.
那个夏天，克林顿花了些时间研究种族隔离学校的问题，只在多森待了几天。但是就像克林顿在韦尔斯利大学(Wellesley)上大学时的辅导员艾伦·H·谢克特(Alan H. Schechter)所说的，从很多方面讲，她在种族隔离学校方面所做的工作最好地体现出她在争取平等权利时“注重务实的一面”。
Decades later, when young Black Lives Matter activists confronted Clinton backstage at a New Hampshire campaign event on what she would do about racial injustice, she articulated the approach she had adopted that summer in Alabama.
几十年后，当“黑人的命也是命”运动的年轻活动家们在新罕布什尔一场选战活动后台询问克林顿在消除种族不平等方面的计划时，她提到了那年夏天自己在阿拉巴马州采取的方式。
“I don't believe you change hearts,”she told them. “I believe you change laws, you change allocation of resources, you change the way systems operate.”
“我不相信你能改变人心，”克林顿对他们说。我相信的是改变法律，改变资源配置和改变系统运作的方式。”
But if Clinton's experience in Dothan opened her eyes to discrimination, it also provided an early education in the obstacles inherent in trying to enact social change through fact-finding and policy papers.
但是如果说克林顿在多森的经历让她更加了解种族歧视，那么它也同样让她初步认识到，通过调查和政策文件推行社会变革必然会遇到怎样的阻力。
Brown, the education advocate who also investigated segregation academies, estimated that maybe one or two of these private schools had lost their tax-exempt status, despite years of work and multiple reports filed to the federal Department of Health, Education and Welfare. “Nixon was president then, and he wasn't going to do anything about it,” she said.
同样参与种族隔离学校调查的教育权益倡导者布朗估计，尽管社会活动家们进行了多年努力，向联邦健康教育福利部(Department of Health, Education and Welfare)递交了很多报告，但是可能只有一两所私立学校失去了免税待遇。她说，“当时的总统是尼克松，他不会对此采取什么行动。”
Houston Academy maintains its tax-exempt status. Today, its once bare-bones campus has a country-club feel. White columns adorn the front entrance, and the admissions office that Clinton would have visited is now decorated with a kaleidoscope of flags of Ivy League schools.
休斯敦中学仍享受免税待遇。这里过去极为简陋的校园现在有一种乡村俱乐部的感觉。前门装饰着白色立柱，克林顿原来应该去过的招生办公室现在装饰着常春藤盟校的各色旗帜。
The proliferation of private schools in the South “was a gigantic event, and it blew the minds of civil rights folks and took the wind out of their sails,” said Douglas A. Blackmon, a Pulitzer Prize-winning author at the University of Virginia's Miller Center who is working on a documentary about the effects of segregation academies.
弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)米勒中心(Miller Center)研究员、普利策奖获奖作家道格拉斯·A·布莱克曼(Douglas A. Blackmon)正在创作一部关于种族隔离学校带来的影响的纪实作品。他说，美国南部私立学校激增“是一个重大事件，它令公民权利活动人士感到不可思议，让他们深受打击”。
“But in a minute, it was over,” he said of the effort to combat such schools. “And the well-intentioned work Hillary described was no match for the absolute insistence of millions of Southern whites that their kids never go to school with black kids.”
“但它很快就过去了，”他指的是对抗此类学校的努力。“希拉里提到的那种用意良好的工作，完全敌不过数以百万计的南方白人的坚定决心，他们不会让自己的孩子和黑人小孩一起上学。”