In what has become an annual summer scourge, the coastal Chinese city of Qingdao has been hit by a near-record algae bloom that has left its popular beaches fouled with a green, stringy 
这已成为每年夏天的祸害，中国沿海城市青岛正在遭遇几乎破纪录的海藻爆发，让那里备受欢迎的海滩盖满了一层绿色的纤维物。
The State Oceanic Administration said an area larger than the state of Connecticut had been affected by the mat of “sea lettuce,” as it is known in Chinese, which is generally harmless to humans but chokes off marine life and invariably chases away tourists as it begins to rot.
国家海洋局称，附近大片沿海区域受到影响（其面积比美国的康涅狄格州还要大），这些海域被俗名为“海白菜”的海藻覆盖，这种海藻一般对人类无害，但却会使海洋生命窒息，随着海藻开始腐烂，游客们会不约而同地躲避之。
For now, beachgoers appeared to be amused by the outbreak, at least according to the Chinese media, which in recent days has featured startling images of swimmers lounging on bright green beds of algae, tossing it around with glee or piling it atop of one another as if it were sand.
到目前为止，去海滩的人似乎觉得爆发很有趣，至少中国国家媒体的报道如此，媒体最近几天发布了令人惊讶的图片，图片上游泳者躺在一片翠绿的海藻上优哉游哉，或手舞足蹈地把海藻扔来扔去，或像玩沙子一样将海藻堆在另一个人身上。
Local officials, however, are not amused. Last month they declared a “large-scale algae disaster,” dispatching hundreds of boats and bulldozers to clean up the waters off Qingdao, a former German concession in Shandong Province that is famous for its beer and beaches. As of Monday, workers and volunteers had cleared about 19,800 tons of the algae, according to the Qingdao government. While valued for its nutrition – or as an ingredient in fertilizers and biomass energy production – algae in large quantities can prove dangerous as it decomposes, producing toxic hydrogen sulphide gas. It also smells like rotting eggs.
然而，当地领导却高兴不起来。他们在上月发布了“大规模海藻灾难”警告，并派出几百艘船只和推土机清除青岛市附近的海域，青岛在山东省，曾是德国的租借地，以啤酒和海滩而闻名。据青岛市政府称，清洁工人和志愿者在周一已经清除了1.98万吨海藻。虽然海藻具有营养价值，可以作为肥料或生产生物质能的原料，但大量海藻却很危险，因为其腐烂后会产生有毒的硫化氢气体，散发出臭鸡蛋的味道。
The green tide, spread over 7,500 square miles, or about 29,000 square kilometers, is thought to be twice the size of an outbreak in 2008 that threatened sailing events during the Beijing Olympics, which took place around Qingdao. At the time, officials deployed boats, helicopters and 10,000 workers to keep the waters clear for the competition.
这次爆发的绿潮覆盖面积约为2.9万平方公里，所影响的海域据信是2008年爆发时的两倍，那次海藻爆发曾威胁到北京奥运会期间在青岛举行的帆船比赛。当时，领导派出船只、直升机以及1万名工人为竞赛维持海域的清洁。
The cleanup cost was later estimated at more than $30 million. Damage to abalone, clam and sea cucumber farms ran to more than $100 million, according to a 2011 study by researchers from the Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences.
之后人们估计那次清除海藻的花费超过3000万美元（约合2亿元人民币）。根据中国水产科学研究院的研究者在2011年发表的研究，那次绿潮对鲍鱼、蛤蜊和海参种植带来的损失超过1亿美元。
An outbreak in 2009 was even bigger, affecting a stretch of the Yellow Sea nearly as large as West 
2009年的海藻爆发规模更大，其在黄海上的影响范围几乎相当于西弗吉尼亚州那么大。
Although biologists are at a loss to explain the most recent algae bloom, scientists suspect it is connected to pollution and increased seaweed farming in the province just south of Shandong. While similar green tides have been reported around the world, the annual bloom in the Yellow Sea is considered the largest, growing to an estimated million tons of biomass each year.
虽然生物学家不知如何解释最近的海藻爆发，但科学家怀疑这与污染、以及山东省以南不断增长的海藻种植活动有关。世界上每年都有类似的绿潮报道，但黄海上的年度海藻爆发却被认为是规模最大的，爆发所产生的生物质已增加到每年100万吨的估计量。
The green tides were first reported in Qingdao in 2007. A key factor is the high supply of nutrients from agriculture runoff and wastewater. But those pollutants have been in the Yellow Sea for decades, leading scientists to look for new triggers.
青岛首次报道发生绿潮是在2007年。发生绿潮的一个关键因素是农业污染排放和废水带来的大量营养物质。然而这些污染物在黄海已经存在了几十年，科学家不得不开始寻找引发绿潮的新原因。
A group of researchers believe that the algae that washes up around Qingdao originates farther south in seaweed farms along the coast of Jiangsu Province. The farms grow porphyra, better known as nori in Japanese cuisine, on large rafts in coastal waters. The rafts attract a kind of algae called ulva prolifera, and when the farmers clean them off each spring they spread the fast-growing seaweed out into the Yellow Sea, where it finds nutrients and warm temperatures ideal for blooming.
一个研究小组认为，被冲到青岛附近的海藻来自南边江苏省沿海地区的海藻种植场。这些种植场在沿海水域的大筏子上种植紫菜，也就是常见于日本料理中的海苔。这些筏子也吸引着一种名为增生石莼(ulva prolifera)的藻类，每年春天种殖者将增生石莼从筏子上清除下去后，这种生长速度极快的藻类进入黄海，那里温暖的水温和丰富的养料使它们得以迅速繁殖。
“It feeds off those nutrients and grows bigger and bigger and eventually you can see it from satellites,” said John Keesing, a scientist at the CSIRO Division of Marine and Atmospheric Research in Australia who is studying the green tide with Chinese researchers. “The currents gently move the algae in a northeastern direction out into the center of the Yellow Sea. You get a huge amount, and eventually it starts to wash on shore.”
澳大利亚联邦科学与工业研究组织海洋大气研究所与中国研究者一起研究绿潮的科学家约翰·基辛(John Keesing)说，“它们吸收这里的养分，越长越多，最后都能从卫星上看到了。洋流将这些海藻从黄海中心慢慢向东北方向运送。海藻的量越来越大，最终开始冲到岸上。”
While farmers have long grown nori along the Jiangsu coast, the rafts expanded much farther offshore starting in 2006, which may have contributed to the recent blooms, according to an article published last May by Mr. Keesing and his colleagues. The answer to curtailing the blooms may lie in disposing of the algae clogging the nori rafts on land.
虽然海藻种植户在江苏省沿海种植紫菜已有很长时间，但是从2006年起，筏子开始向更远的海域扩张，这也许是造成近来绿潮爆发的原因，去年5月基辛及其同事发表的一篇文章这么认为。遏止绿潮蔓延的办法可能是把种植海苔的筏子上长的无用海藻送到岸上处理。
“We haven’t suggested people stop growing porphyra, but proper husbandry methods to prevent much of the waste algae from going into sea, that’s probably the only preventive measure that could be deployed,” he 
他说，“我们没有提出要人们停止种植紫菜，但是需要采取合理的种植方式，以防止被清除的海藻进入海洋，这可能是唯一可行的防御措施了。”