ADOLESCENCE is practically synonymous in our culture with risk taking, emotional drama and all forms of outlandish behavior. Until very recently, the widely accepted explanation for adolescent angst has been psychological. Developmentally, teenagers face a number of social and emotional challenges, like starting to separate from their parents, getting accepted into a peer group and figuring out who they really are. It doesn’t take a psychoanalyst to realize that these are anxiety-provoking transitions.
在我们的文化里，青春期几乎是冒险、情感闹剧和各种出格举动的同义词。直至近期，人们普遍从心理学角度来解释青春期焦虑。从发育的角度来看，青少年面临一系列社交和情感上的挑战，比如开始与家长分离、争取同龄伙伴的接纳，同时塑造自已的身份认同感。不需要精神分析专家，大家便可以发觉，这些转变都会触发焦虑。
But there is a darker side to adolescence that, until now, was poorly understood: a surge during teenage years in anxiety and fearfulness. Largely because of a quirk of brain development, adolescents, on average, experience more anxiety and fear and have a harder time learning how not to be afraid than either children or adults.
不过，人们现在才发现，青春期还有鲜有人了解的较为阴暗的一面：在青少年阶段，焦虑和恐惧会激增。主要由于大脑发育的剧烈变化，相比儿童或成年人，青少年总的来说要面对更多的焦虑与恐惧，而且更难了解自己怎样才能不那么害怕。
Different regions and circuits of the brain mature at very different rates. It turns out that the brain circuit for processing fear — the amygdala — is precocious and develops way ahead of the prefrontal cortex, the seat of reasoning and executive control. This means that adolescents have a brain that is wired with an enhanced capacity for fear and anxiety, but is relatively underdeveloped when it comes to calm reasoning.
大脑不同的区域和沟回以截然不同的速度发育成熟。现在人们已经发现，处理恐惧的大脑回路——也就是杏仁核——比负责推理和执行控制的额前皮质要提前发育很多。这意味着，青少年的大脑有较强的感知恐惧与焦虑能力，但在需要冷静推理时，却发育得不那么充分。
You may wonder why, if adolescents have such enhanced capacity for anxiety, they are such novelty seekers and risk takers. It would seem that the two traits are at odds. The answer, in part, is that the brain’s reward center, just like its fear circuit, matures earlier than the prefrontal cortex. That reward center drives much of teenagers’ risky behavior. This behavioral paradox also helps explain why adolescents are particularly prone to injury and trauma. The top three killers of teenagers are accidents, homicide and suicide.
你也许会问，既然青少年感知焦虑的能力有了如此大的提升，为什么同时他们还这么喜欢追求新奇，渴望冒险呢？这两种特质貌似是水火不相容的。部分原因在于，大脑的奖励中枢和恐惧回路一样，都是先于额前皮质开始发育。青少年做出的许多冒险行为由额前皮质驱使。这种行为悖论也有助于解释，为什么青少年特别容易受到身体和心理上的创伤。青少年的前三位杀手分别是事故、凶杀及自杀。
The brain-development lag has huge implications for how we think about anxiety and how we treat it. It suggests that anxious adolescents may not be very responsive to psychotherapy that attempts to teach them to be unafraid, like cognitive behavior therapy, which is zealously prescribed for teenagers.
大脑发育的时间差对于我们理解及治疗焦虑，具有重大的意义。它意味着，给焦虑的青少年进行精神治疗，比如认知行为治疗，教育他们不要畏惧，可能起不到多少效果，而目前这种治疗恰恰在青少年身上广泛采用。
What we have learned should also make us think twice — and then some — about the ever rising use of stimulants in young people, because these drugs may worsen anxiety and make it harder for teenagers to do what they are developmentally supposed to do: learn to be unafraid when it is appropriate to do so.
在年轻人使用兴奋剂的比例日渐升高之时，对大脑发育的发现也应该令我们三思而行，因为这类药物有可能恶化焦虑症状，使得青少年更难以遵照发育学的规律行事，那就是学会在适当的条件下不再怯懦。
As a psychiatrist, I’ve treated many adults with various anxiety disorders, nearly all of whom trace the origin of the problem to their teenage years. They typically report an uneventful childhood rudely interrupted by adolescent anxiety. For many, the anxiety was inexplicable and came out of nowhere.
作为精神科医生，我治疗过很多患有不同类型焦虑症的成年人，几乎所有人都能将问题追溯到他们的青春期。通常他们都表示，自己童年的平静被青春期的焦虑粗暴地打破。对于当中很多人来说，这样的焦虑难以言明，也无从知晓从何而来。
OF course, most adolescents do not develop anxiety disorders, but acquire the skill to modulate their fear as their prefrontal cortex matures in young adulthood, at around age 25. But up to 20 percent of adolescents in the United States experience a diagnosable anxiety disorder, like generalized anxiety or panic attacks, probably resulting from a mix of genetic factors and environmental influences. The prevalence of anxiety disorders and risky behavior (both of which reflect this developmental disjunction in the brain) have been relatively steady, which suggests to me that the biological contribution is very significant.
当然了，多数青少年没有恶化到患上焦虑症的程度，而是随着迈入成年，在25岁左右时额前皮质发育成熟，取得了调节恐惧感的能力。但在美国，高达20%的青少年也确实得了可确诊的焦虑症，比如广泛性焦虑症(generalized anxiety)或惊恐发作(panic attack)，而这很可能是由遗传因素和环境影响共同作用的结果。焦虑症和危险行为（两者均反映大脑发育脱节）的发生率多年来一直相对平稳，在我看来，这说明生理因素起到很重要的作用。
One of my patients, a 32-year-old man, recalled feeling anxious in social gatherings as a teenager. “It was viscerally unpleasant and I felt as if I couldn’t even speak the same language as other people in the room,” he said. It wasn’t that he disliked human company; rather, socializing in groups felt dangerous, even though intellectually he knew that wasn’t the case. He developed a strategy early on to deal with his discomfort: alcohol. When he drank, he felt relaxed and able to engage. Now treated and sober for several years, he still has a trace of social anxiety and still wishes for a drink in anticipation of socializing.
我的一位病人是个32岁的男性，他回忆说，自从步入青春期，他就对参加社交聚会感到焦虑。“我会发自内心地感觉不舒服，就好像我跟屋子里的其他人说的都不是一种语言那样，”他说。他并不是不喜欢身边有人陪伴；而是他感觉跟大家聚在一起是件危险的事情，尽管从理智上他知道这并不是真的。他很早就找到了一种策略来应对这种不适，那就是酒精。只要喝了酒，他就能放松下来，跟大家相处。现在，他已经接受了几年治疗，并且戒了酒，可仍然有点社交恐惧的焦虑症状，而且在社交时也仍然渴望能喝一杯。
Of course, we all experience anxiety. Among other things, it’s a normal emotional response to threatening situations. The hallmark of an anxiety disorder is the persistence of anxiety that causes intense distress and interferes with functioning even in safe settings, long after any threat has receded.
当然了，我们每个人都会有焦虑感。在身处险境时，它和其他感受一样，都是种自然的情绪反应。而焦虑症的标志是，即使在各种威胁都消退已久，置身安全的场所中时，挥之不去的焦虑感仍然会引发强烈的不安，干扰人的正常机能。
We’ve recently learned that adolescents show heightened fear responses and have difficulty learning how not to be afraid. In one study using brain M.R.I., researchers at Weill Cornell Medical College and Stanford University found that when adolescents were shown fearful faces, they had exaggerated responses in the amygdala compared with children and adults.
最近我们了解到，年龄在青春期的人会表现出更强烈的恐惧反应，而且难以学会如何不那么害怕。威尔·康奈尔医学院(Weill Cornell Medical College)和斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的科研人员运用脑部磁共振成像研究发现，青春期的人看到恐惧的面部时，他们大脑杏仁核的反应比儿童和成人都更为强烈。
The amygdala is a region buried deep beneath the cortex that is critical in evaluating and responding to fear. It sends and receives connections to our prefrontal cortex alerting us to danger even before we have had time to really think about it. Think of that split-second adrenaline surge when you see what appears to be a snake out on a hike in the woods. That instantaneous fear is your amygdala in action. Then you circle back, take another look and this time your prefrontal cortex tells you it was just a harmless stick.
杏仁核是埋藏在大脑皮层深处的区域，对衡量及应对恐惧感至关重要。我们还来不及仔细思考时，它就已经开始传递和接收额前皮质发出的危险警报了。设想一下，当你在林间远足时，突然看到眼前有样东西好像是蛇，刹那间你体内的肾上腺素就会狂飚。这种瞬间产生的恐惧感是你的杏仁核在发挥作用。随后你定下神来，再看一眼，这回你的额前皮质通知你，这只是一根人畜无害的木棍。
Thus, the fear circuit is a two-way street. While we have limited control over the fear alarm from our amygdala, our prefrontal cortex can effectively exert top-down control, giving us the ability to more accurately assess the risk in our environment. Because the prefrontal cortex is one of the last brain regions to mature, adolescents have far less ability to modulate emotions.
这样一来，恐惧回路就成为双向道。尽管在免于杏仁核接受恐惧警报方面我们只具备有限的控制力，但我们的额前皮质可以有效施加自上而下的管控，赋予我们更精确评估环境风险的能力。由于在大脑中，额前皮质是最后一批发育成熟的部位之一，青少年调节情绪的能力要远逊于成年人。
Fear learning lies at the heart of anxiety and anxiety disorders. This primitive form of learning allows us to form associations between events and specific cues and environments that may predict danger. Way back on the savanna, for example, we would have learned that the rustle in the grass or the sudden flight of birds might signal a predator — and taken the cue and run to safety. Without the ability to identify such danger signals, we would have been lunch long ago.
焦虑与焦虑症的核心便是对恐惧的认知。这种认知的原始形态可以令我们在具体事件，与可能预示着危险的特定信号，以及环境间建立联想。举例来说，早在生活在热带草原时，人类也许就已经认识到草丛里的一阵窸窸窣窣，或者群鸟刹时间惊飞，也许是掠食动物靠近的信号——因此根据这种提示逃到安全地带。如果没有辨识这类危险讯号的能力，我们在很久以前就已经成为猛兽的盘中餐了。
But once previously threatening cues or situations become safe, we have to be able to re-evaluate them and suppress our learned fear associations. People with anxiety disorders have trouble doing this and experience persistent fear in the absence of threat — better known as anxiety.
可是，一旦先前的提示或环境已经转危为安，我们就应当有能力对之做出重新评估，并抑制习得的恐惧联系。患有焦虑症的人则难以做到这一点，因此在不存在威胁的情况时仍然持续感到恐惧——通常就被称为“焦虑”。
Another patient I saw in consultation recently, a 23-year-old woman, described how she became anxious when she was younger after seeing a commercial about asthma. “It made me incredibly worried for no reason, and I had a panic attack soon after seeing it,” she said. As an older teenager, she became worried about getting too close to homeless people and would hold her breath when near them, knowing that “this was crazy and made no sense.”
我最近接诊的另一位病人是个23岁的女性，她描述说自从小时候收看了一条关于哮喘病的广告后，就开始出现焦虑症状。“它让我毫无来由地觉得极度忧虑，在看到广告不久后，我就出现了一次惊恐发作，”她说。在快到20岁时，她特别害怕靠近露宿街头的人，明知“这样毫无道理，简直是疯了，”但每当靠近他们时，她还是会屏住呼吸。
B. J. Casey, a professor of psychology and the director of the Sackler Institute at Weill Cornell Medical College, has studied fear learning in a group of children, adolescents and adults. Subjects were shown a colored square at the same time that they were exposed to an aversive noise. The colored square, previously a neutral stimulus, became associated with an unpleasant sound and elicited a fear response similar to that elicited by the sound. What Dr. Casey and her colleagues found was that there were no differences between the subjects in the acquisition of fear conditioning.
B.J.凯西(B.J. Casey)是心理学教授，担任威尔-康奈尔医学院塞克勒研究所(Sackler Institute at Weill Cornell Medical College)所长，他曾研究过一组儿童、青少年和成年人的恐惧心理。研究对象在看到一块涂上颜色的正方形同时，听到了令人反感的噪音。原本作为中性刺激物的涂色正方形因此与让人不舒服的声音联系在一起，产生的恐惧反应与单纯由噪音引起的反应类似。凯西博士与她的同事因此发现，受试者在恐惧制约的获得方面并无差异。
But when Dr. Casey trained the subjects to essentially unlearn the association between the colored square and the noise — a process called fear extinction — something very different happened. With fear extinction, subjects are repeatedly shown the colored square in the absence of the noise. Now the square, also known as the conditioned stimulus, loses its ability to elicit a fear response. Dr. Casey discovered that adolescents had a much harder time “unlearning” the link between the colored square and the noise than children or adults did.
不过，当凯西训练受试者消除涂色正方形和噪音间的关联时——这个过程称为恐惧消退——出现了截然不同的反应。在恐惧消退环节中，受试者反复观看涂色正方形，而这次不再有噪音出现。于是，作为条件刺激物的正方形渐渐失去了激发恐惧反应的能力。凯西博士发现比起儿童和成年人，青少年更难“消除”涂色正方形和噪音间的联系。
IN effect, adolescents had trouble learning that a cue that was previously linked to something aversive was now neutral and “safe.” If you consider that adolescence is a time of exploration when young people develop greater autonomy, an enhanced capacity for fear and a more tenacious memory for threatening situations are adaptive and would confer survival advantage. In fact, the developmental gap between the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex that is described in humans has been found across mammalian species, suggesting that this is an evolutionary advantage. This new understanding about the neurodevelopmental basis of adolescent anxiety has important implications, too, in how we should treat anxiety disorders. One of the most widely used and empirically supported treatments for anxiety disorders is cognitive behavior therapy, a form of extinction learning in which a stimulus that is experienced as frightening is repeatedly presented in a nonthreatening environment. If, for example, you had a fear of spiders, you would be gradually exposed to them in a setting where there were no dire consequences and you would slowly lose your arachnophobia. The paradox is that adolescents are at increased risk of anxiety disorders in part because of their impaired ability to successfully extinguish fear associations, yet they may be the least responsive to desensitization treatments like cognitive behavior therapy precisely because of this impairment.
事实上，青少年难以认识到此前惹人憎恶的信号如今已经变中性和“安全”了。如果你视青春期为探索的阶段，年轻人在此期间培养出了更强烈的自主性，那么，增加对恐惧的承受力，对危险环境保持更坚固的记忆，就成为一种适应力，能带来生存优势。其实在人类中存在的杏仁核和前额皮质发育差距，在哺乳动物中是常见的，这意味着这种发育差距实则是一种进化优势。对青少年焦虑的神经发育基础的全新理解，对于我们治疗焦虑症患者有着重要意义。目前在治疗焦虑症方面，使用最广、也最受实证支持的是认知行为治疗，它属于消退学习，在治疗中，曾被患者视作恐惧刺激物的事物在一个不存在任何危险的环境中被反复呈现。比方说，如果你原先害怕蜘蛛，就需要在一个不会带来悲惨后果的环境中逐渐接触蜘蛛，因此渐渐抛弃蛛蛛恐惧症。但这里存在一个悖论：青少年患焦虑症的风险较高，部分原因在于他们欠缺成功抑制恐惧关联的能力，同时，正因为欠缺这种能力，像认知行为治疗这一类的脱敏疗法对他们的效果可能最差。
This presents a huge clinical challenge since young people are generally risk takers who are more prone to exposure to trauma as a direct result of their behavior, to say nothing of those who were exposed to the horrors of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan or the mass shootings like those in Newtown and Aurora. Many of them will go on to develop post-traumatic stress disorder, which is essentially a form of fear learning. Now we have good reason to think that exposure therapy alone may not be the best treatment for them. A recent study of children and adolescents with anxiety disorders found that only 55 to 60 percent of subjects responded to either cognitive behavior therapy or an antidepressant alone, but 81 percent responded to a combination of these treatments. And in another study, there was preliminary evidence that adolescents responded less well to cognitive behavior therapy than children or adults.
这就给临床带来了巨大的挑战，因为年轻人通常爱冒险，更容易直接因其行为而受到创伤，更不消提那些曾经历过伊拉克和阿富汗战争恐惧影响，或曾面对过纽顿或奥罗拉大规模枪杀案的年轻人了。当中的很多人情况可能会恶化，发展为创伤后应激障碍，这种综合症从本质上来说是习得性恐惧的一种形式。现在我们有充分的理由认为，单纯使用暴露疗法，对他们也许不是最佳治疗手段。近期一项对于患焦虑症的儿童和青少年的研究发现，只有55–60%的受试者对单一的认知行为疗法或抗抑郁药有积极反应，但如果联合使用这两种治疗方案，有积极反应的比例则可上升至81%。而另一项研究的初期证据表明，青少年相比儿童或成人，对认知行为疗法的反应较差。
This isn’t to say that cognitive therapy is ineffective for teenagers, but that because of their relative difficulty in learning to be unafraid, it may not be the most effective treatment when used on its own.
这并不是说认知疗法对青少年无效，而是由于青少年相对较难学会无所畏惧，当单独使用时，它可能未必是最有效的治疗手段。
And there is potentially something else to worry about with our anxious adolescents: the meteoric rise in their use of psychostimulants like Ritalin and Adderall. In theory, stimulants could have a negative impact on the normal developmental trajectory of anxious teenagers.
此外，对于这群焦虑的青少年，还有其他隐忧：这个人群使用像利他林(Ritalin)和阿德拉(Adderall)这类精神兴奋药的比例在急速上升。理论上，兴奋类药物对焦虑的青少年的正常发育曲线可能产生负面影响。