Steven Patrick Morrissey of Manchester, England, a place “more brittle and less courteous than anywhere else on earth,” former singer for the Smiths, once and future hero for the misunderstood, and champion for powerless humans and animals, is also an inspired adman. The concept for the Smiths’ record covers, he explains in his new book, “Autobiography,” was “to take images that were the opposite of glamour and to pump enough heart and desire into them to show ordinariness as an instrument of power — or possibly, glamour.”
史蒂文·帕特里克·莫里西(Steven Patrick Morrissey)来自英国曼彻斯特，一个“比世界上任何地方都要冷漠无礼的地方”，这位“史密斯”(Smiths)的前任主唱从过去到未来一直都是受误解者们的英雄，是弱者与动物们的捍卫者，也是一位极具创意的推销者。他在自己的新书《自传》(Autobiography)中说，“史密斯”唱片封面的概念是“使用那些毫无魅力可言的图像，为它们注入心灵与欲望，使‘平凡’亦能成为传达力量的工具——如有可能，亦可成为展现魅力的工具”。
The best of them, with tinted black-and-white photographs and all-caps type, did exactly that. The cover for the single “Heaven Knows I’m Miserable Now,” in 1984, shows Viv Nicholson, a Yorkshire cake-factory worker, a winner and famously fast spender of a lucrative football pool in 1961, fully owning the middle of a rutted street. She has what looks like a camel’s-hair coat, teased and bleached hair, a grim face. In her apparent knowledge that she is fantastic amid wreckage, she radiates power. But the cover itself, declaring her importance as well as the band’s, radiates even more.
“史密斯”最精彩的几幅唱片封面确实做到了这一点，它们是略带淡彩的黑白照片，字体全用大写。比如1984年的单曲《老天知道我现在很悲惨》(Heaven Knows I’m Miserable Now)的封面，用的是约克郡蛋糕厂工人维芙·尼克尔森(Viv Nicholson)独自站在遍布车辙的街道上的照片，她是1961年足球彩票的大奖得主，以将奖金很快挥霍一空而闻名。照片上，她穿着驼毛外套，淡色头发，发型可笑，表情严肃。表面上，她置身荒凉的环境，显得十分怪异，但却焕发着力量。这张封面强调着她的重要性，也宣示着乐队的重要性，它所焕发出的光彩则更加强烈。
“Autobiography,” as sharp as it is tedious, both empathetic and pointlessly cruel, has been published in England as a Penguin Classics paperback. (No American publication date has been announced.) And its cover also radiates power. It follows the design template of Penguin’s pre-20th-century titles, with orange lettering on a black panel. Morrissey has talked himself into a special clique of the dead. He may be a British national treasure etc., but how did he manage that?
《自传》在英格兰由企鹅经典(Penguin Classics)出版了平装版（美国出版时间未定），这本书既犀利又沉闷，既富于移情作用，同时又有毫无意义的残忍。它的封面也同样焕发着力量。书名设计采用企鹅公司20世纪之前图书的模版，黑底上衬着橘黄色的字。通过一系列言论，莫里西已经让自己打入了一个由死人组成的特殊小圈子。他或许是英国的国宝级艺人，但他是怎么做到的呢？
Morrissey’s operation is built on doing extraordinarily attention-getting things while intimating vestigial modesty. Who gave him permission to put a yellow streak in his hair while attending what he describes as pretty much the grimmest Catholic school of the global 1970s? Or to figure that “only classical composers were known by just their surnames, and this suited my mudlark temperament quite nicely”? Or to let himself, untutored in music, be “free as a hawk to paint the canvas as I wish” while recording with the Smiths, creating extravagantly mannered vocal melodies over Johnny Marr’s exact song constructions?
莫里西做事的基调就是，一边不断做非常引人注意的事，同时又暗示出自己残存的质朴一面。20世纪70年代，是谁同意他一边就读他口中全世界最严厉的天主教学校，一边又挑染了一缕黄发？“只有古典作曲家才能让人们只用姓氏称呼，这很对我这挖泥工人的爆脾气。”这句话他是怎么想到的？这个从没受过正统音乐教育的人在和“史密斯”一起录音时，又怎么能做到“像雄鹰翱翔一样随心所欲地在画布上涂抹”，在约翰尼·马尔(Johnny Marr)的作曲基础上创作出极具特色的人声旋律？
Or, as he did after the release of the book last week, to issue a statement about his sexual orientation, for those still confused after reading his story for 457 pages? “Unfortunately, I am not homosexual,” he declared. “In technical fact, I am humasexual. I am attracted to humans. But, of course ... not many.”
这本书于上周出版后不久，他很快发表了一份声明，给那些读完了全书457页却还是对他的性取向感到迷惑不解的人们，“不幸的是，我不是同性恋，”他宣布，“从技术事实的角度而言，我是‘人类恋’(humasexual)。我迷恋人类。不过，当然……并不是很多人。”这样的事，他又是怎么办到的？
He understands his own value — boy does he ever — and he understands the position of the superfan. The best stretches in this book, written in the excited present tense of teenage perceptions, comes from extremely close attention to music, movies, television and attitudes in England up to the late 1970s.
他了解自身的价值——他永远是个男孩——他也了解超级歌迷的地位。书中最精彩的一部分是以十几岁少年的视角，用令人兴奋的现在时态写成，来自对20世纪70年代末期音乐电影、电视，乃至英国风格的密切观察。
He watches the Eurovision Song Contest, taking notes for his own “private scoring system.” He lives for early Roxy Music, and his seven pages on the New York Dolls’s first record — they’re American, but they’ve got what he’s looking for — present a high level of celebratory criticism, the kind that shoots back and forth between researched fact and wild metaphor. Like this: “On an infinitesimal scale, Dolls songs are about life happening against us — never with or for us — and as agents of their own troubles they relate everything to themselves. Their eyes are indifferent. They have left the order of this world.”
他边看欧洲电视网的唱歌比赛，边按“自己的评分系统”做笔记。他深爱着早期的“洛克西音乐”(Roxy Music)，关于“纽约妞儿”(New York Dolls)的第一张专辑，他写了七页纸——他们是美国人，但他们身上有他想要的东西。这些内容呈现出高水平的正面评价，在确凿的事实和狂野的隐喻之间来回摇摆。诸如“在极小的规模上，‘纽约妞儿’的歌是关于我们人生中遭遇的意外——从未发生在我们身上的，或只在我们身上发生的——他们如同特工一样探寻自身的烦恼，把一切都同自己联系起来。他们眼神漠然，他们已经抛弃了这个世界的规则。”
His outsider gods include Iggy Pop, David Bowie, Patti Smith; also, Oscar Wilde and A. E. Housman. But he’s also as interested in pop’s matte-finish forgotten ones. You’ll read of Blue Mink’s “Melting Pot,” Sandie Shaw’s “You’ve Not Changed,” the Love Affair’s “Rainbow Valley.” You’ll read all about the TV show “Lost in Space,” particularly about the actor Jonathan Harris as Dr. Zachary Smith. (“Effeminate men are very witty,” he wrote in his notepad at the time, “whereas macho men are duller than death.”)
他心目中的叛逆之神还包括伊基·波普(Iggy Pop)、大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)、帕蒂·史密斯(Patti Smith)以及奥斯卡·王尔德(Oscar Wilde)和A·E·霍斯曼(A. E. Housman)。但他也对流行文化中精美而遭人遗忘的作品深有兴趣。书中你会读到布鲁·敏克(Blue Mink)的《坩埚》(Melting Pot)、桑迪·肖(Sandie Shaw)的《你一直没变》(You’ve Not Changed)、“风流韵事”(Love Affair)的《彩虹谷》(Rainbow Valley)。你也可以看到电视剧《迷失太空》(Lost in Space)，特别是关于饰演扎克里·史密斯博士(Dr. Zachary Smith)的演员乔纳森·哈里斯(Jonathan Harris)。（“带女人气的男人都很诙谐，”当时他在笔记本上写道，“大男子主义的男人都闷得要死。”）
This is Morrissey as supersensitive instrument; it’s a great first third of his book. The Smiths form in 1982, and from his central position he judges their work critically and well. He argues for an understanding of the band as tough, not soft; he hates the sound of the first album; he explains why and how various songs were written; he declares “Strangeways Here We Come” the group’s masterpiece. He feels perpetually let down by Rough Trade, the Smiths’ label, arguing that its management and staff — “an encouraging ragbag of Oxbridge ganja dissidents” — held them back from the popularity they merited. This is all believable and amusing, until being misunderstood and undervalued becomes the general tenor of a long book.
这是全书精彩的前1/3部分，其中的莫里西就像一件敏感的乐器。1982年，“史密斯”建立，他从乐队核心的角度严格而中肯地评判着他们的作品。他争辩说，乐队的风格其实是强硬的，不是温柔的；他讨厌第一张专辑中的音色；他解释若干首歌的创作原因和创作方法；他还宣布《我们走上奇异的道路》(Strangeways Here We Come)是乐队的杰作。他对“史密斯”的厂牌“艰难行业”(Rough Trade)表示不满，认为都是因为他们的经营和人员（“一大堆牛津剑桥抽大麻的异见分子，满口都是承诺”），才使得乐队没能获得应得的知名度。这一切都有趣而令人信服，直到关于误解和被低估的抱怨成了厚厚一本书的主旋律。
During his post-Smiths solo tour of the United States in 1991 and 1992, when he sells out Madison Square Garden, he professes to think that his admirers have gone crazy. He learns that Elizabeth Taylor has come to his concert. “Has she confused me for someone else?” he writes. Fans circle his car. “What do they think is about to occur?” he wonders.
离开“史密斯”后，1991年到1992年，他在美国做个人巡演，麦迪逊广场花园演唱会的票子销售一空，他承认，他觉得自己的崇拜者们都疯了。他听说伊丽莎白·泰勒也来看她的演唱会，“她是不是把我和别人弄混了？”歌迷包围了他的车子。“他们觉得会发生什么？”他想。
In his extreme attitudes he seems exactly half-American, half-English: I-want-it-yesterday matched with self-conscious modesty and morbid, reflexive disappointment.
在最极端的时候，他似乎半是美国人，半是英国人：怀旧情绪混杂着自省的谦逊，乃至本能的病态失望。
His relationships with other humans, famous and not, are tricky. As soon as he describes someone as having integrity, you’re pretty sure that person is going to die soon; that list includes his teenage friends Jon Daley and Anji Hardy, his manager Nigel Thomas and the onetime Bowie guitarist Mick Ronson. He describes a relationship with a man named Jake Owen Walters, who comes to his house after a mid-’90s dinner party; “he steps inside and he stays for two years,” but there’s not much about him after that.
他与其他人的关系都很复杂微妙，不管对方是不是名人。只要他开始称赞某人非常正直，你就可以肯定，这人不久后就要死了；这个名单包括他的少年好友乔恩·德雷(Jon Daley)与安吉·哈迪(Anji Hardy)，他的经纪人尼格尔·托马斯(Nigel Thomas)与曾经给鲍伊当过吉他手的米克·罗森(Mick Ronson)。他描写自己和一个名叫杰克·欧文·沃尔特斯(Jake Owen Walters)的男人的关系，90年代中期一次宴会派对之后，此人来到莫里西家，“他走进来呆了两年”，但后来就没怎么写关于这人的事。
Morrissey is a pop star of unusual writing talent, but he’s written a usual sort of pop-star memoir: fascinating until he achieves true power and earns enough money to want to protect it, at which point it turns dull and sometimes petty. His protracted legal battles with Mike Joyce, the Smiths’ drummer, over Mr. Joyce’s demands for an equal share of royalties, takes up nearly 50 pages. (You understand his position, but you don’t need nearly that much of it.)
莫里西是一个具有非凡写作才华的流行歌星，但写出来的却是一本平凡的流行歌星回忆录：一开始很迷人，直到他获得真正的权力，赚了足够的钱，以至于想要保护自己的金钱地位，之后内容就开始变得枯燥，有时显得有些卑劣小气。“史密斯”的鼓手迈克·乔伊斯(Mike Joyce)要求平等的版税权利，二人冗长的法律争讼占了将近50页（你能理解他的立场，但你也用不着看那么多内容）。
And the book staggers to a close in a series of battles with the press, perceived slights from other musicians and adoration from fans, which gives him mixed feelings. “Why do you still question the love?” his keyboardist Mikey Farrell asks him, around 2007. “I wave the question away,” Morrissey writes, “the heart stuck in an ice-cold morning of 1970. I am impossible.”
这本书跌跌撞撞来到了结尾，他经历了一连串同媒体的斗争，意识到自己受到其他音乐家的蔑视，也受到歌迷的爱戴，这让他心情复杂。“你为什么还要质疑爱？”2007年，他的键盘手米凯·法雷尔(Mikey Farrell)问过他。“我挥别了这个质疑，”莫里西写道，“我的心在1970年一个冰冷的早晨停滞。我真是不可思议。”