DJIBOUTI — The 10:24 a.m. train out of Djibouti’s capital drew some of the biggest names in the Horn of Africa last month. Serenaded by a chorus of tribal singers, the crush of African leaders, European diplomats and pop icons climbed the stairs of the newly built train station and merrily jostled their way into the pristine, air-conditioned carriages making their inaugural run.
吉布提——上个月，一趟上午10点24分发自吉布提首都的火车引来了非洲之角一些最重要的人物。在部落歌手合唱团的演唱声中，一大群非洲领导人、欧洲外交官，以及流行文化的偶像，在新建的火车站爬上楼梯，快乐地竞相进入全新的、有空调的车厢，乘坐了这趟首次运行的列车。
“It is indeed a historic moment, a pride for our nations and peoples,” said Hailemariam Desalegn, the prime minister of Ethiopia, shortly before the train — the first electric, transnational railway in Africa — headed toward Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital. “This line will change the social and economic landscape of our two countries.”
“这的确是一个历史性的时刻，值得我们两国和两国人民自豪，”埃塞俄比亚总理海尔马里亚姆·德萨莱尼(Hailemariam Desalegn)在这趟开往埃塞俄比亚首都亚的斯亚贝巴的列车启程前不久时说。“这条铁路将改变我们两国的社会和经济布局。”这是非洲的第一条电气化跨国铁路。 
But perhaps the biggest star of the day was China, which designed the system, supplied the trains and imported hundreds of engineers for the six years it took to plan and build the 466-mile line. And the $4 billion cost? Chinese banks provided nearly all the financing.
但那天最大的明星也许是中国，中国设计了这个系统，提供了火车，并在规划和建设这条全长753公里的铁路的六年间，输入了数百名工程师。那40亿美元的造价呢？中国银行提供了几乎所有的资金。
Having constructed one of the world’s most extensive and modern rail networks at home, China is taking its prodigious resources and expertise global. Chinese-built subway cars will soon appear in Chicago and Boston, Beijing is building a $5 billion high-speed rail line in Indonesia, and the Chinese government recently christened new rail freight service between London and Beijing. Another ambitious system in the works, the 2,400-mile Pan-Asia Railway Network, would link China to Laos, Thailand and Singapore.
中国已建成了世界上覆盖最广、最现代化的铁路网络之一，现在中国正在把其雄厚的资源和专业知识带给世界。中国制造的地铁车厢将很快出现在芝加哥和波士顿，北京正在印度尼西亚建设一条造价50亿美元的高速铁路，中国政府最近在伦敦和北京之间建成了新的铁路货运服务。另一个尚未完成的雄心勃勃的工程是总长度为8.1万公里的泛亚铁路网，这个网络将把中国与老挝、泰国和新加坡连接起来。
But few places are being reshaped by China’s overseas juggernaut like Africa, a continent that has seen relatively little new railroad construction in a century.
但很少有地方像非洲那样正在被中国的巨大海外投资重新塑造，一个世纪以来，非洲大陆只新建了为数不多的铁路。
Despite years of steady economic growth, sub-Sahara Africa remains hobbled by an infrastructure deficit, according to the Africa Development Bank, with only half of its roads paved and nearly 600 million people lacking access to electricity.
尽管有多年来的稳定经济增长，但撒哈拉以南的非洲仍受基础设施不足的困扰，据非洲开发银行的数据，非洲的道路只有一半铺有路面，有近6亿人尚未用上电。
Chinese companies, many of them state-owned and grappling with an economic slowdown at home, have stepped unto the breach, spending some $50 billion a year on new ports, highways and airports across the continent, according to the China Africa Research Initiative at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
中国公司（其中许多是受国内经济增长放缓影响的国有企业）已经在填补这个缺口，这些公司每年在为非洲各地建设新港口、新高速公路和新机场上投入了约500亿美元，据约翰·霍普金斯大学高等国际研究院中非研究所(China Africa Research Initiative)的统计。
Many of the projects are part of Beijing’s new Silk Road initiative, a $1 trillion effort intended to deepen ties between China and its trading partners in the developing world.
许多项目是北京“新丝绸之路”计划的一部分，这个价值1万亿美元的计划旨在加深中国与其发展中国家贸易伙伴之间的关系。
Much of that spending has been directed at rail projects that planners hope will transform the way Africans travel and do business with one another, and the rest of the world.
这笔资金的绝大部分都投在铁路项目上，项目计划者希望，这些铁路将改变非洲人的旅行方式，也将改变非洲人之间以及非洲与世界其他地方做生意的方式。
Chinese-built and -financed projects include a two-year-old light-rail system in the Ethiopian capital; a $13 billion rail link between the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, and the port city of Mombasa that will open later this year; and an ambitious rail modernization project in Nigeria that includes an urban transit system for Lagos.
中国建造和资助的项目包括两年前在埃塞俄比亚首都建成的一个轻轨系统，还有今年晚些时候将通车的、将肯尼亚首都内罗毕与港口城市蒙巴萨连接起来的造价130亿美元的铁路，以及尼日利亚的一个雄心勃勃的铁路现代化项目，其中包括一个为拉各斯修建的城市交通系统。
“For the longest time, railroads across Africa were limping along and in decline, but with the Chinese, that’s definitely changing,” said Andrew Grantham, the news editor at Railway Gazette International, a trade publication.
“很久以来，非洲各地的铁路都在勉强维持并走向衰退，但中国人来了之后，这一切肯定在改变，”贸易出版物《国际铁路快报》(Railway Gazette International)的新闻主编安德鲁·格兰瑟姆(Andrew Grantham)说。
China’s enthusiasm for constructing railroads, schools and stadiums in Africa stands in marked contrast to the role of the United States, which has largely shied away from financing infrastructure on the continent. One of the few exceptions, Power Africa, a $9.7 billion initiative announced by President Barack Obama in 2013, has fallen far short of its goal of providing electricity to 20 million households within five years.
中国在非洲建设铁路、学校和体育馆的积极性，与美国在那里的作用形成鲜明对比，美国在很大程度上不愿意投资非洲大陆的基础设施项目。一个为数不多的例外是巴拉克·奥巴马总统2013年宣布的97亿美元的“Power Africa”计划，但这个计划远未达到其在五年内向2000万个家庭提供电力的目标。
When it comes to trade, China surpassed the United States in 2009 to become Africa’s biggest trading partner.
就贸易而言，中国早在2009年就超过了美国，成为非洲最大的贸易伙伴。
It remains unclear how that calculus might change under the Trump administration. President Trump has questioned the benefits of free trade agreements, and a questionnaire from his transition team that was sent to the State Department last month expressed skepticism for foreign aid and development efforts in Africa.
美国的考虑在特朗普政府下会如何改变尚不清楚。特朗普总统一直怀疑自由贸易协定带来的好处，他的过渡班子上个月发给国务院的一个调查问卷对外国在非洲的援助和发展努力表示了怀疑。
That worries some African officials and longtime experts, who fear the loss of American influence and largess — and the good will that is often produced by desperately needed infrastructure projects.
这使一些非洲官员和长期关注非洲的专家感到担忧，他们担心失去的不仅是美国的影响力和慷慨解囊，还有通常伴随急需的基础设施项目建设而来的良好意愿。
Amadou Sy, director of the Africa Growth Initiative at the Brookings Institution, said the United States was also missing opportunities to cultivate loyal customers.
布鲁金斯学会非洲增长倡议项目主任阿马杜·赛(Amadou Sy)说，美国也在失去培养忠实客户的机会。
“If you’re looking for new markets, Africa is the place to be,” he said. “But right now, the U.S. is not leveraging Africa’s huge potential. By contrast, the Chinese are there, and they are willing to take risks.”
“如果你在寻找新市场的话，非洲是非去不可的地方，”他说。“但是现在，美国并没有利用非洲的巨大潜力。相反，中国人已经在那里，他们愿意冒这个险。”
China is placing more than $14 billion worth of bets here in Djibouti, a geopolitically strategic speck of a country beset by soaring poverty and unemployment. The projects include three ports, two airports and a pipeline that will bring water from Ethiopia, its landlocked neighbor and a regional economic power that depends on Djibouti’s ports for 90 percent of its foreign trade.
中国正在吉布提投下价值超过140亿美元的赌注，吉布提是一个高度贫困和高失业率的小国，但它在地缘政治上具有战略意义。中国在吉布提的项目包括三个港口、两个机场，以及一条从其内陆邻国埃塞俄比亚引水的管道，埃塞俄比亚是该区域的经济大国，其外贸的90%依赖于吉布提的港口。
Also on the drawing board are a series of Chinese-built, coal-fired power plants that would ease summertime electricity failures and help fuel a new tax-free manufacturing zone that officials hope will turn Djibouti into a Hong Kong-style entrepôt and international shipping hub.
待建的项目还有一系列由中国建造的燃煤发电厂，这些电厂可以缓解夏季断电的问题，并为建设一个新的免税制造区提供动力，当地官员希望这个免税区将把吉布提变成一个类似香港的转运口岸和国际海运枢纽。
Aboubaker Omar Hadi, chairman of the Djibouti Ports and Free Zones Authority, said he hoped the new railway linking his country to the Ethiopian capital would be just the first leg of a long-dreamed trans-Africa route, from the Indian Ocean to the Atlantic.
吉布提港和自由贸易区管理局主席阿布贝克·奥马尔·哈迪(Aboubaker Omar Hadi)说他希望，把他的国家与埃塞俄比亚首都连接起来的新铁路，将是人们长期梦想的、从印度洋到大西洋的跨非洲铁路的第一段。
“The train is already a game-changer,” he said, noting that it will cut to 12 hours what until now had been a grueling three- or four-day trip by truck.
“通火车已经改变了游戏规则，”他说，他指出火车将把行程减少到12小时，直到现在，两地之间艰苦的三至四天的旅行仍靠卡车。
Mr. Hadi praised the Chinese for going all in after Western banks declined to help finance the nation’s glaring infrastructure needs.
哈迪称赞中国人在西方银行拒绝为该国基础设施需求提供资金后全力投资。
“We approached the U.S., and they didn’t have the vision,” he said. “They are not thinking ahead 30 years. They only have a vision of Africa from the past, as a continent of war and famine. The Chinese have vision.”
“我们找过美国，但他们没有这种远见，”他说。“他们不是在考虑未来的30年。他们用过去的眼光看非洲，只看到了非洲大陆的战争和饥荒。中国人有远见。”