It’s an open secret: Even now, in the 21st century, Korean executives often consult spiritual advisers before making major business decisions — decisions that can affect their employees around the world.
一个公开的秘密是：即便在21世纪的今天，韩企高管做出或将对其遍布全球的雇员产生影响的重大商业决策之前，依然常常咨询灵媒。
Last month, an appeals court upheld the four-year prison sentence of Chey Tae-won, the disgraced head of SK Group, one of the largest South Korean conglomerates, who was convicted in January of embezzling nearly 50 billion won (around $45 million) to cover losses on personal investments.
今年2月，因挪用公款近500亿韩元（约合2.9亿元人民币）用于弥补个人投资损失，韩国最大型的企业集团之一、SK集团(SK Group)的会长崔泰源(Chey Tae-won)被判入狱4年，颜面扫地。上个月，上诉法院裁定，维持原判。
The story took a bizarre turn the night before the prison term was upheld, when Kim Won-hong, a former personal asset manager of Mr. Chey’s who worked for a subsidiary of SK, was extradited from Taiwan to South Korea to face charges for his role in the scam.
上诉法院的判决出炉的前一天晚上，曾为崔泰源管理个人资产的SK子公司前雇员金元洪（Kim Won-hong，音译）被从台湾引渡回了韩国，因涉嫌参与这场骗局而面临指控。故事由此发生了诡异的转折。
Many South Koreans believe Mr. Kim served as Mr. Chey’s fortune-teller.
许多韩国人认为，金元洪曾是崔泰源的算命师。
It may seem absurd in an advanced capitalist country that executives seek counsel with fortune-tellers, but South Koreans have long had an intimate relationship with the occult.
发达资本主义国家的企业高管居然要向算命师征询意见，看上去很是荒唐。但长期以来，韩国人一直与这种超自然的东西走得很近。
Consulting a fortune-teller is common among ordinary people, who may seek advice at crucial life passages like graduation or marriage, or ask for help with depression or career troubles. Spiritual advisers tell fortunes based on the exact time of a client’s birthdate.
就普通人而言，向算命师讨教是常有的事。他们可能会在毕业和结婚这样的关键人生阶段寻求建议，还会请算命师帮助他们对付抑郁情绪，或者处理职业生涯中的难题。灵媒算命的依据则是客户确切的生辰八字。
Many South Koreans also believe in physiognomy — the notion that a person’s personality and fate can be “read” in the shape of the eyes, nose, ears and forehead. Increasing numbers of South Koreans have been undergoing plastic surgery to change their physiognomy, particularly people in their 50s and 60s. A hit movie this fall, “Physiognomy,” capitalized on this interest.
许多韩国人还相信“观相”——意思是说，通过眼睛、鼻子、耳朵和前额的形状，可以“相”出一个人的性格和命运。在韩国，通过整形手术改变面相的人越来越多，五六十岁的人尤甚。今年秋天热映的电影《观相》(Physiognomy)，就利用了人们在这方面的兴趣。
Shamans, known locally as mudangs, offer guidance with “pungsu,” a concept similar to feng shui that considers the human relationship to nature and physical space. The position of a building in relation to mountains and rivers is seen as important, and a shaman may be consulted about the location of a house or a grave.
在韩国，被称为“巫堂”(mudangs)的萨满(shaman)依照“风水”(pungsu)为客户提供指引。这一概念与中国的风水类似，研究的是人与自然及物理环境的关系。建筑物的位置与山川河流的关系在风水上非常重要，人们可能会就房屋或者墓穴的选址征询巫堂的意见。
I sought out a fortune-teller when I was about to graduate from college. The young man, whose hair reached down to his feet, said to me: “You will live by your writing and your speech,” which turned out to be true.
我即将从大学毕业之际就曾找过一个算命师。那是一个年轻男士，头发长得都快拖到地上了。他跟我说：“你会以写作和语言为生。”这句话最终应验了。
He said that I was originally a tree and that an enormous boulder was trying to knock me down. The tension between tree and boulder explained my rage toward the world, he said, predicting that my anger would weaken as my tree grew. He recommended that I live near water — trees need hydration. Eventually I would become a happier, gentler person, he said, adding that I most likely preferred beer to hard liquor.
他说，我本来是一棵树，而一块巨石试图把我砸倒。他宣称，树和石之间的对立就是我对世界充满愤怒的原因，并预言随着我那棵树越长越大，愤怒会日渐消退。他建议我住在离水近的地方，因为树离不开水。他还说，我最终会成为一个更快乐、更温和的人，而且我很可能喜欢喝啤酒，而非烈酒。
When it became known that the fortune-teller had accurately pinpointed my drinking habits, many of my friends sought him out. His predictions were less prophetic for them, and memories of our visits to him turned into a long-running joke.
这个算命师准确地指出了我的饮酒习惯。事情传开后，许多朋友都去找他，但他们听到的预言就不那么准确了。后来，我们去拜访他的往事变成了一个老笑话。
But for all the popularity of spiritual advisers in South Korea, it still shocks to see the leaders of huge public companies relying on fortune-tellers. A shaman may advise a struggling executive to move a building’s front entrance, tapping the widespread pungsu belief that your luck depends on the direction of your house. Shamans may sit in on interviews to offer guidance on hiring. We can assume they are paid huge sums for their advice.
尽管灵媒在韩国受到普遍欢迎，但看到大型上市公司的领导人也对算命师如此依赖，还是让人大吃一惊。按照运气取决于房屋方位的风水信条，巫堂可能会建议一名苦苦挣扎的高管给建筑物的前门挪个位置。巫堂还可能参加企业的招聘面试，就人员的雇佣提供指引。可以想见，他们会因提出建议而得到大笔酬金。
Mr. Chey was hardly the only executive to seek a connection to the supernatural.
崔泰源绝不是唯一一个寻求与超自然力量建立联系的企业高管。
When the head of the Hyundai Motor Company, Chung Mong-koo, was fighting with his younger brother Chung Mong-hun over the company’s management, he is said to have consulted a fortune-teller. Lee Byung-chull, the founder of Samsung Electronics and father of the present chairman, Lee Kun-hee, is believed to have strong faith in pungsu. (The elder Mr. Lee considered physiognomy so important that he made sure a fortune-teller, or “face reader,” was present at employment interviews.) LG Group is believed to have considered pungsu when determining the structure of a new building.
有传言称，现代汽车公司(Hyundai Motor Company)会长郑梦九(Chung Mong-Koo)与弟弟郑梦宪(Chung Mong-hun)争夺公司管理权期间，就曾咨询过一个算命师。三星电子(Samsung Electronics)现任会长李健熙(Lee Kun-hee)的父亲、公司创始人李秉喆（Lee Byung-chull)则被认为笃信风水。（李秉喆极为看重面相，每当公司进行招聘面试时，他都要确保有算命师或者“观相师”在场。）此外，LG集团(LG Group)决定一栋新大厦的结构时，据信也考虑了风水的因素。
It is perhaps not unusual then that Mr. Chey also turned to a fortune-teller. When he was handed the leadership of SK after his father’s death in 1998, he was too cash poor to pay his inheritance taxes. Mr. Kim was entrusted to invest Mr. Chey’s personal money because of his connection to a former SK executive who was also a close family friend and mentor of Mr. Chey’s.
这样看来，崔泰源会求助于算命师或许就不足为奇了。父亲于1998年去世后，他接掌了SK集团。当时，他手头的现金少得可怜，连遗产税都交不起。金元洪与SK集团的一位前高管有关系，此人同时也是崔氏家族的密友及崔泰源本人的导师。于是，金元洪便受托用崔泰源的个人资金进行投资。
At first, the gambit paid off. Mr. Kim reportedly tripled the value of Mr. Chey’s investments, supporting the view that Mr. Kim was a prophet.
起初，这种冒险得到了回报。据报道，金元洪让崔泰源的投资一度增值为三倍。这更加令人确信，金元洪具有未卜先知的能力。
But Mr. Kim’s financial magic didn’t last long. The investments turned sour in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, dragging Mr. Chey deeper into debt. Friction developed between the two. Mr. Kim fled South Korea, apparently to avoid the inquiry into Mr. Chey’s investment losses. He’s now under investigation as an accomplice to the embezzlement.
然而，金元洪的金融魔法没能管用太久。2008年金融危机之后，投资出现亏损，令崔泰源在债务的泥沼中越陷越深。两人之间产生了摩擦。金元洪逃离了韩国，显然是要逃避针对崔泰源的投资损失的调查。目前，他正作为挪用公款案的共犯接受调查。
“He was a legendary figure,” a financial analyst who refused to be named told the Korea Times, referring to Mr. Kim. “People said he had an ability to foresee the future and he was even famous as a fortune-teller when he was young.”
“他以前是个传奇人物，”谈及金元洪，一名不愿具名的金融分析师告诉《韩国时报》(The Korea Times)。“人们说他有预见未来的能力。他还很年轻的时候，就已经是一个著名的算命师了。”
One wonders if Mr. Kim predicted his future would be behind bars.
人们不禁要问，金元洪是否算出了他未来会身陷囹圄。