LONDON — In its continuing regulatory standoff with European policy makers, Uber, the ride-booking company, is not backing down.
伦敦——叫车公司优步(Uber)与欧洲政策制定者之间的对峙一直持续，现在它也不会退让。
That was the message on Monday from Mark MacGann, Uber’s head of European policy, who stressed that the company would continue to take legal action against countries that tried to ban some of its services.
周一，优步欧洲政策负责人马克·麦克甘恩(Mark MacGann)对外界传达了以上的态度。他强调，该公司会继续通过法律途径，与试图禁止该公司部分服务的国家对抗。
“If governments take decisions that we believe are contrary to European law, then of course we will have to decide what to do next,” Mr. MacGann told reporters on Monday when asked about future legal action. “Regulation in some countries was written decades ago before we all carried smartphones in our pockets.”
“如果我们认为政府的决定违反了欧洲法律，那我们当然必须要想，下一步该怎么做，”麦克甘恩周一在被问及未来的司法行动时，对记者这样说。“有些国家的法规是几十年前制定的，那时我们兜里都还没有装着智能手机。”
Mr. MacGann’s comments came days after ​a case about UberPop, the company’s low-cost ride-booking service, was referred to Europe’s highest court, the European Court of Justice​. The pending legal case could clear up ​much of the legal uncertainty surrounding Uber’s business in the region.
麦克甘恩发表此番言论几天前，涉及该公司的低价叫车服务UberPop的一宗诉讼被提交至欧洲的最高法院欧洲法院(European Court of Justice)。这场正在审理的诉讼，或许能扫除在欧洲地区困扰优步业务的一些不确定的法律因素。
The legal case, which the judges will not rule on for at least 18 months, could provide a pan-European ruling on whether UberPop is legal across the 28-member European Union — a decision that could potentially overrule several national and citywide bans of the service. It was referred to the European Court of Justice last week by a Spanish judge.
虽然至少在未来的18个月内，法官都不会对这起诉讼做出判决，但它可能会为28个欧盟成员国里UberPop是否合法，提供一个涵盖整个欧洲的裁决——这个裁决有可能推翻几个国家和城市对于该服务的禁令。该案是上周由一个西班牙法官提交到欧洲法院的。
Uber, which allows drivers to connect with potential passengers through a smartphone application, has been facing a number of regulatory hurdles across the European Union.
优步使驾驶员与潜在客户可以通过智能手机应用互相联系，该公司在许多欧盟国家都面临一些监管方面的障碍。
In late June, French taxi drivers held violent protests in many cities against the rise of UberPop. The company later agreed to shut down the service temporarily.
今年6月底，法国出租车司机针对UberPop的兴起，在许多城市发起了暴力抗议。优步公司后来同意暂停该项服务。
Other European cities and national governments, in the Netherlands, Germany and Spain, among other countries, have banned some of Uber’s offerings, saying they represent unfair competition for taxi drivers.
欧洲其他城市和国家的政府，如荷兰、德国、西班牙等一些国家，禁止了优步的一些服务，认为优步对出租车司机构成了不公平的竞争。
Many global policy makers also have taken a negative view on Uber, which is now valued at more than $40 billion. Most recently, New York officials have proposed capping the number of cars that the likes of Uber can have on the road, in a bid to reduce traffic congestion.
世界上许多政策制定者，也对当前估值400亿美元的优步持负面看法。最近，纽约政府提出，对于允许上路的优步车数量设置上限，以减轻交通拥堵状况。
In addition to waiting for a decision from Europe’s top court, Uber has filed legal cases against France, Germany and Spain over bans on its low-cost service. It also has asked the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, to weigh in on whether national governments have the right to ban the company’s offerings.
除了等待欧洲法院的裁决，优步还就法国、德国、西班牙政府对其低价服务颁布的禁令发起了诉讼。该公司也要求欧盟行政机构欧盟委员会(European Commission)，就成员国政府是否有权禁止其业务发表意见。
And Mr. MacGann told reporters on Monday that the company would consider further legal action against governments that tried to clamp down on Uber’s services.
麦克甘恩周一告诉记者，对于试图打压优步业务的政府，公司会考虑进一步采取法律行动。