WASHINGTON — As a young lawmaker defining himself as a presidential candidate, Barack Obama visited a center for scholars in October 2007 to give a speech on terrorism. He described a surveillance state run amok and vowed to rein it in. “That means no more illegal wiretapping of American citizens,” he declared. “No more national security letters to spy on citizens who are not suspected of a crime.”
华盛顿——2007年10月，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)作为一名年轻议员曾访问过一个学者中心，他自认要成为总统候选人，并在那里发表了一篇关于恐怖主义的演讲。他描述了一种失去控制的监控状态，并誓言要对它进行约束。他说，“这意味着美国公民的电话不会再被非法监听。不会再有要求对无犯罪嫌疑的公民进行监控的“国家安全密函”。
More than six years later, the onetime constitutional lawyer is now the commander in chief presiding over a surveillance state that some of his own advisers think has once again gotten out of control. On Friday, he will give another speech, this time at the Justice Department defending government spying even as he adjusts it to address a wave of public concern over civil liberties.
六年多过去了，当年的宪法律师如今已经成为管理监控状态的总司令。在他自己的一些顾问看来，这种监控状态也已经失控。本周五，他将再次发表演讲——这次是在司法部，为政府的监控行为辩护，虽然他调整了演讲内容，以回应公众对公民自由的担忧。
The journey between those two speeches reflects the transition from the backbench of the United States Senate to the chair behind the Resolute Desk in the Oval Office. Like other presidents before him, the idealistic candidate skeptical of government power found that the tricky trade-offs of national security issues look different to the person charged with using that power to ensure public safety.
这两次演讲的差别，反映了奥巴马从美国参议院的普通议员席，到坐上椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)坚毅桌(Resolute Desk)后那张椅子的过程中所经历的转变。就像之前的历届总统，这名质疑政府权力的理想主义总统候选人发现，对一个负责利用权力确保公共安全的人来说，国家安全问题的艰难权衡会看来完全不同。
Aides said that even as a senator, Mr. Obama supported robust surveillance as long as it was legal and appropriate, and that now as president he still shares the concerns about overreach he expressed years ago. But they said his views have been shaped to a striking degree by the reality of waking up every day in the White House responsible for heading off the myriad threats he finds in his daily intelligence briefings. “When you get the package every morning, it puts steel in your spine,” said David Plouffe, the president’s longtime adviser. “There are people out there every day who are plotting. The notion that we would put down a tool that would protect people here in America is hard to fathom.”
助手们说，即使在当参议员的时候，奥巴马也支持实施大力监控，只要项目合法且得当。他们还说，现在作为总统，他同样对他多年前管得过多表示不安。但是他们说，他每天从白宫一醒来就要负责阻断他从情报简报中听到的大量威胁，这样的现实让他的看法已经发生了惊人的改变。奥巴马的长期顾问戴维·普洛夫(David Plouffe)说，“如果你每天早上都会看到情报汇总，它会让你不敢有丝毫松懈。每天都有人在制造阴谋。如果我们放弃一个能够保护美国人的工具，那才令人费解。”
At the same time, aides said Mr. Obama was surprised to learn after leaks by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, just how far the surveillance had gone. “Things seem to have grown at the N.S.A.,” Mr. Plouffe said. “I think it was disturbing to most people and I think he found it disturbing.”
与此同时，助手们说，在美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄密后，对于监控项目的规模，奥巴马也吃了一惊。普洛夫说，“NSA的项目似乎已经扩大。我觉得这会令大多数人不安，我想他也会觉得不安。”
Yet it is hard to express indignation at actions of the government after five years of running it, and some involved in surveillance note that it was Mr. Obama who pushed national security agencies to be aggressive in hunting terrorists. “For some, his outrage does ring a little bit hollow,” said a former counterterrorism official.
然而，在执政五年之后，奥巴马很难对政府的行动表达愤怒，此外，参与监控项目的一些人指出，是奥巴马施压要求国安局在追击恐怖分子的过程中要力度更大。一名前反恐官员说，“对于一些人来说，他的愤怒的确有点虚伪。”
All of which leads to worries by critics of government surveillance that he will not go far enough on Friday. “If the speech is anything like what is being reported, the president will go down in history for having retained and defended George W. Bush’s surveillance programs rather than reformed them,” said Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
这些都引发了监控项目批评人士的不安，担心他在周五的讲话中在这些问题上不会很深入。美国公民自由联盟(American Civil Liberties Union)的执行主任安东尼·D·罗梅罗(Anthony D. Romero)说，“如果他的演讲就像报道中说的那样，奥巴马将会因为保留和支持乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的监控项目被载入历史，而不是因为改革了这些项目。”
Mr. Obama first confronted the questions of national security and privacy during his 2004 campaign for Senate, taking aim at the Patriot Act for “violating our fundamental notions of privacy” and declaring that “we don’t like federal agents poking around our libraries.”
奥巴马在2004年的参议院竞选时，首次质疑了国家安全和隐私的问题，他指责《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)“违背了我们对隐私权的基本定义”，并声称“我们不喜欢在我们的图书馆周围东张西望的联邦特工。”
Once elected, Mr. Obama took an interest in curbing surveillance. “He would ask me about various issues that relate to the topic of the day — how do you come up with policies that make sure that security and liberty are not mutually exclusive?” recalled Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon and a leading critic of surveillance policies then and now.
当选之后，奥巴马曾经想要限制监控项目。俄勒冈州民主党参议员罗恩·怀登(Ron Wyden)当时和现在都是监控政策的主要批评者，他回忆说，“他会问我与这个热门话题有关的各种问题——你们是如何制定出政策，确保安全和自由并不相悖？”
Mr. Obama co-sponsored a bill in 2005 to raise the standard required for federal agents using administrative subpoenas known as national security letters to obtain business records without court order. He joined other Democrats fighting the renewal of the Patriot Act until it was amended to address civil liberties concerns, then voted for its extension in 2006 after a compromise, breaking with Mr. Wyden who voted no.
奥巴马2005年参与提出了一项法案，该法案旨在提高联邦特工利用行政传票——即所谓的国家安全密函——在没有法庭命令的情况下获得商业记录的门槛。他加入另外一些民主党人反对《爱国者法案》的更新，一直到法案做出修改回应了人们对公民自由的担忧，在妥协之后，奥巴马在2006年投票支持该法案延期，并因此与投反对票的怀登分裂。
Mr. Obama’s October 2007 speech at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars came after the revelation that President George W. Bush had authorized warrantless surveillance in terrorism cases without permission from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. By then a presidential candidate, Mr. Obama criticized Mr. Bush’s “false choice between the liberties we cherish and the security we provide.”
乔治·W·布什授权情报机构在没有获得外国情报监视法庭(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court)允许的情况下对涉恐案件进行无证监视，此事曝光之后，奥巴马于2007年10月在伍德罗·威尔逊国际学者中心(Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars)发表了讲话。当时奥巴马还是总统候选人，他批评布什“在我们珍视的自由和我们提供的安全之间做出了错误的选择”。
But as a former Obama aide put it recently, “The rhetoric was probably sharper than his votes.” By summer 2008, with the Democratic nomination secured and the White House now a real possibility, Mr. Obama voted for legislation essentially ratifying Mr. Bush’s surveillance programs. Mr. Obama realized he would “take my lumps” from the left and said it “was not an easy call for me” but argued that putting the programs under the jurisdiction of the intelligence court restored accountability.
但是，正如奥巴马的一名前助手最近所说，“他的言辞或许比他投出的票要明智。”到2008年夏天，奥巴马作为民主党提名人的地位已稳固，真的有可能入主白宫，这时，在一项实质上批准了布什监听项目的立法提案中，奥巴马投下了赞成票。他意识到他可能会遭到左派的“攻击”，并表示“这对我来说并不容易”，但他认为，把监听项目置于情报法庭的管辖之下是重新恢复了问责制。
As a result, after he won the election, surveillance issues were off his agenda; instead, he focused on banning interrogations techniques he deemed torture and closing the prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. “There wasn’t really any serious discussion of what N.S.A. was up to,” said a former intelligence official, who like others did not want to be named describing internal conversations. The Guantánamo Bay prison remains open.
结果，当他在总统大选中胜出之后，监听问题就从他的议程中消失了，他把重点放在了禁止被他视为酷刑的审讯方式上，放在了关闭古巴关塔那摩湾的监狱上。一名前情报官员说：“他们没有认真讨论过NSA的做法。”这名官员跟别人一样，在描述内部交流时也不愿具名。关塔那摩湾的监狱至今仍然没有关闭。
Mr. Obama was told before his inauguration of a supposed plot by Somali extremists to attack the ceremony, what David Axelrod, his adviser, called a “welcome-to-the-N.B.A. moment before the first game.” Although the report proved unfounded, it reinforced to Mr. Obama the need to detect threats before they materialized. “The whole Somali threat injected their team into the realities of national security in a tangible and complicated way,” recalled Juan Carlos Zarate, the outgoing counterterrorism adviser to Mr. Bush who worked with the Obama team on the threat.
奥巴马就职之前，有人告诉他，索马里极端分子可能正在策划一项阴谋，在他的就职仪式上发起攻击，他的顾问戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)称那是“首场比赛前的欢迎来到NBA时刻”。虽然事实证明这个说法是空些来风，但它让奥巴马更强烈地意识到，有必要在威胁兑现之前发现它们。“索马里威胁这整件事以一种有形而复杂的方式，让奥巴马的团队认清了国家安全的现状。”胡安·卡洛斯·萨拉特(Juan Carlos Zarate)回忆道，当时他是布什政府的反恐顾问，与将离任，跟奥巴马的团队合作应对索马里威胁事件。
So while instituting additional procedural changes, like more audits, Mr. Obama undertook no major overhaul of the surveillance programs he inherited. “He’s sitting on the other end of the pen now,” said the former Obama aide. “He has more information than he did then. And he trusts himself to use these powers more than he did the Bush administration.”
因此，尽管新增了一些程序性的改变，比如更多地进行稽核，奥巴马并没有对前任留下的监听项目进行重大改革。“现在他坐在了栏杆的另一边，”奥巴马的这位前助手说。“与那时相比，他现在掌握的信息更多了。他相信自己会用好这些权力，而不怎么信任布什政府会用好它。”
Feeling little pressure to curb the security agencies, Mr. Obama largely left them alone until Mr. Snowden began disclosing secret programs last year. Mr. Obama was angry at the revelations, privately excoriating Mr. Snowden as a self-important narcissist who had not thought through the consequences of his actions.
由于几乎没有感觉到有遏制情报机构的压力，奥巴马在很大程度上对它们放任自流，直到去年斯诺登开始曝光秘密项目。这些事情的曝光让奥巴马感到愤怒，他私下里谴责斯诺登妄自尊大、自恋，没有考虑过揭秘行为的后果。
He was surprised at the uproar that ensued, advisers said, particularly that so many Americans did not trust him, much less trust the oversight provided by the intelligence court and Congress. As more secrets spilled out, though, aides said even Mr. Obama was chagrined. They said he was exercised to learn that the mobile phone of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany was being tapped.
顾问们说，随之而来的轩然大波让奥巴马感到惊讶，有这么多的美国人不信任他，而且更不信任情报法庭和国会的监督，这尤其令他震惊。不过，随着越来越多的秘密曝光，助手们表示，奥巴马也很懊恼。他们说，奥巴马发现德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的手机遭到监听后，感到心烦意乱。
Mr. Obama appointed a panel to review the programs. “The point we made to him was, ‘We’re not really concerned about you, Barack, but God forbid some other guy’s in the office five years from now and there’s another 9/11?’ ” said Richard A. Clarke, a former White House counterterrorism adviser who served on the panel. He had to “lay down some roadblocks in addition to what we have now so that once you’re gone it’ll be harder” to abuse spying capabilities.
奥巴马任命了一个专家小组来审查这些项目。“我们向他提出的观点是，‘我们不是真的担心你，贝拉克，但五年后坐在这个办公室的那位总统呢？如果9·11事件再次发生呢？’”前白宫反恐顾问、该专家小组成员理查德·A·克拉克(Richard A. Clarke)说。奥巴马必须“在现有的路障之外，再添加一些路障，这样一旦你离开白宫”，滥用监听能力会变得更加困难。
On the other hand, Mr. Obama was acutely aware of the risks of being seen as handcuffing the security agencies. “Whatever reforms he makes, you can be sure if there’s another incident — and the odds are there will be in our history — there’ll be someone on CNN within seconds saying if the president hadn’t hamstrung the intelligence community, this wouldn’t have happened,” said Mr. Axelrod.
另一方面，奥巴马也敏锐地意识到被视为给情报机构加上镣铐的人，可能带来的风险。“无论他进行了怎样的改革，可以肯定的是，如果另一起恐怖事件发生了——这确实有可能——就会马上有人在CNN上说，如果总统没有捆住情报界的手脚，这起事件本来不会发生。”阿克塞尔罗德说。
Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser working on Friday’s speech, said Mr. Obama sees the issue as two separate questions — abuse of government power and extent of government power. With the 2008 legislation setting a new structure, the president had focused on avoiding abuse until the latest revelations. “At this point, we’re looking more systematically at these programs to ensure that we’re taking into account both technological advances and also the need to inspire greater public confidence,” said Mr. Rhodes. “We have an ability to do essentially anything technologically. So do we have the appropriate legal and policy overlay to ensure that’s focused?”
为周五的讲话做准备工作的副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说，奥巴马把这个问题看成是两个独立的问题——滥用政府权力，以及政府权力的范围。2008年的立法设定了新的机制之后，总统一直把重心放在避免权力的滥用上，直到最新的曝光事件发生。“目前，我们正在更加系统化地考察这些项目，以确保我们既考虑到技术进步，也考虑到增强民众信心的需要。”罗兹说。“从技术上说，我们基本上有能力办到任何事。那么，我们是否有相应的法律和政策，来确保把重心集中在这种能力上呢？”
That will be the question Mr. Obama attempts to answer in the speech.
那将是奥巴马试图在演讲中回答的问题。