BAGHDAD — With American bombs raining down from the sky, Shiite militia fighters aligned with Iran battled Sunni extremists over the weekend, punching through their defenses to break the weekslong siege of Amerli, a cluster of farming villages whose Shiite residents faced possible slaughter.
巴格达——上周末，随着美国的炸弹雨点般地从天而降，与伊朗结盟的什叶派民兵组织对阿莫利的逊尼派极端分子发起进攻，冲破他们的防线，以解除他们对那里的围困。阿莫利地区覆盖了多座务农的村庄，已被围困数周之久，那里的什叶派居民可能面临着被屠杀的命运。
The fight in northern Iraq appeared to be the first time American warplanes and militias backed by Iran had worked with a common purpose on a battlefield against militants from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, even though the Obama administration said there was no direct coordination with the militias.
在伊拉克北部进行的这场战斗，似乎是美国战机和伊朗支持的民兵组织首次在战场上同仇敌忾，一起打击伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，缩写ISIS）的武装分子。不过奥巴马政府表示，美国并没有和这些民兵组织直接进行协调。
Should such military actions continue, they could signal a dramatic shift for the United States and Iran, which have long vied for control in Iraq. They could also align the interests of the Americans with their longtime sworn enemies in the Shiite militias, whose fighters killed many United States soldiers during the long occupation of Iraq.
这样的军事行动如果继续开展下去，对于长期争夺伊拉克控制权的美国和伊朗而言，或许意味着一个戏剧性的转变。而且，这还可能令美国及其老对头什叶派民兵取得利益上的一致。在美军长期占领伊拉克期间，什叶派民兵组织杀害了很多美国士兵。
The latest expansion of American military operations reflects how seriously Iraq has deteriorated since the withdrawal of American forces in 2011. But any decision to support the Shiite militias, who have proven more adept than the American-trained Iraqi Army, would come with its own set of challenges.
这次美国扩大军事行动，反映了自2011年美军撤离后，伊拉克局势恶化的严重程度。但是，任何支持什叶派民兵的决定，本身也会带来一系列挑战。事实已经证明，什叶派民兵组织的战斗力，强于美国训练的伊拉克政府军。
The militants from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria were able to storm into Iraq in recent months in part because Sunnis felt so disenfranchised by the Shiite-led government of former Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. If the United States is seen to be strengthening the hand of militias that terrorized Sunnis during the sectarian war of 2006 and 2007, the minority Sunnis might balk at participating in America’s long-term goal of a unity government.
近几个月来，ISIS武装分子之所以能够在伊拉克长驱直入，部分原因是逊尼派觉得，前总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)执政期间领导的以什叶派为主的政府排挤了他们。而且在2006和2007年的宗派战争期间，什叶派民兵组织令逊尼派人心惶惶。如果美国被视为在助长这些民兵组织的气焰，那么人口处于劣势的逊尼派可能就不会参与美国的长期目标：在伊拉克组成团结政府。
Or, in a worst-case scenario, more Sunnis could align with ISIS fighters.
或者，在最糟糕的情况下，会有更多逊尼派人士和ISIS武装分子结盟。
David Petraeus, a former top American military commander in Iraq who led the United States troop surge in 2007, months ago warned against such possibilities as the Obama administration, reeling from the fall of Iraq’s second largest city, Mosul, weighed military action against ISIS.
几个月前，当奥巴马政府受到伊拉克第二大城市摩苏尔失守的刺激，在权衡抗击ISIS的军事行动时，戴维·彼得雷乌斯(David Petraeus)就曾对这种可能性发出警告。此人曾是驻伊拉克的美军最高指挥官，领导过2007年的增兵行动。
“This cannot be the United States being the air force for Shia militias or a Shia-on-Sunni Arab fight,” he said at a security conference in London in June. “It has to be a fight of all of Iraq against extremists, who do happen to be Sunni Arabs.”
“这不可以是美国为什叶派民兵，或者为阿拉伯世界‘什叶派对逊尼派’的斗争提供空中支援，”今年6月，他在伦敦的一次安全会议上说。“这必须是全体伊拉克人打击极端分子的斗争，只不过这些极端分子恰好是逊尼派阿拉伯人。”
The United States was careful to note on Sunday that it was working in Amerli with its allies: regular Iraqi Army units and Kurdish security forces, which the United States has been supporting with air power since President Obama authorized airstrikes several weeks ago.
周日的时候，美国谨慎地表示，自己正与盟友在阿莫利展开合作，而盟友是伊拉克常规军和库尔德安全部队。自从奥巴马总统几周前授权空袭以来，美军就一直在为这二者提供空中支援。
“Any coordinating with the Shiite militias was not done by us — it would have been done by the ISF,” a senior administration official said on Sunday, referring to the Iraqi Security Forces. But it is well known that the Shiite militias have been fighting alongside the army in recent months as the threat from ISIS became clear.
“和什叶派民兵之间的所有协调行动，都不是我们进行的——而应该是由ISF进行的，”奥巴马政府的一位高级官员周日表示，而此人口中的ISF指的是伊拉克安全部队(Iraqi Security Forces)。不过，众所周知的是，最近几个月，当来自ISIS的威胁变得明显起来时，什叶派民兵组织一直在和ISF并肩作战。
A second administration official, meanwhile, said the United States is not working directly with Tehran. “We are working with the Iraqi government and with the Kurdish pesh merga in Iraq,” the official said. “That’s it.”
另一名政府官员也同时表示，美国没有直接与伊朗合作。“我们正在与伊拉克政府和伊拉克的库尔德敢死军合作，”这名官员说。“仅此而已。”
Security officials on Sunday said that Amerli, a town about 105 miles north of Baghdad whose estimated 15,000 residents are mostly Shiite Turkmen considered infidels by ISIS, was not fully liberated but that the combined forces had cleared several villages from the militants.
巴格达以北约105英里（约合170公里）的阿莫利估计有1.5万居民，大多都是被ISIS视为异教徒的什叶派土库曼人。周日，安全官员表示，并没有完全收复该地区，但是，联军已经清除了几座村庄的武装分子。
Last year ISIS exploited the chaos of the Syrian civil war to take control of large expanses of territory there, before sweeping into Iraq, its birthplace, as a greater force and erasing the border between the two countries. Its explosion onto a turbulent region has threatened the breakup of Iraq and forced a reluctant President Obama to re-engage more fully in the Middle East.
去年，趁着叙利亚内战乱局带来的机会，ISIS在那里占据了大片土地，然后作为一股更强大的势力，大举进军它的诞生地伊拉克，令两国之间的边界逐渐不复存在。ISIS在这个动荡地区的迅速壮大，让伊拉克面临着分裂的威胁，也迫使一直不愿介入的奥巴马更加全面地再次投身中东事务。
For overwhelmingly Shiite Iran, the rise of ISIS — and its aim of creating a Sunni caliphate in the region — was alarming because of the possible threat to Iran itself. The militants’ sudden successes also posed a more immediate threat of further destabilizing two countries — Iraq and Syria — that have been close to Tehran and helped it extend its power in the region.
在什叶派占绝大多数的伊朗，ISIS的崛起——及其在该地区建立一个逊尼派哈里发王国的企图——引起了德黑兰的警惕，因为这可能会对伊朗本身构成威胁。伊拉克和叙利亚均与德黑兰关系密切，并且助其扩大了在地区的势力范围，而ISIS武装分子的突然成功，有可能更为直接地加剧这两个国家的动荡。
In a reflection of the region’s increasingly tangled politics, the Obama administration is considering taking the fight against ISIS to Syria.
鉴于该地区日益错综复杂的政治局面，奥巴马政府正在考虑打击叙利亚境内的ISIS。
The United States and Iran have opposite goals there: Iran has been an important supporter of President Bashar al-Assad, while the United States has sought his ouster by supporting moderate rebels. But any American military action against ISIS in Syria could end up bolstering Mr. Assad — and furthering Iran’s regional agenda.
在这个问题上，美国和伊朗的目标截然相反：伊朗是叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的重要支持者，而美国则希望通过支持温和的反对派把他赶下台。但美国开展任何打击叙利亚境内的ISIS的军事行动，最终都可能会有助于巩固阿萨德的地位——并推进伊朗在该地区的议程。
The Obama administration has tried to avoid being seen as taking sides in a sectarian war, because the Shiite militias are especially feared by Iraq’s Sunni population.
涉及宗派战争时，奥巴马政府一直试图避免显得在偏袒其中任何一方，因为伊拉克的逊尼派人士特别担心什叶派民兵组织。
But for one day at least, the realities on the ground appeared to override any concerns of effectively supporting the militias.
但是，至少在这一天里，伊拉克的现实状况，似乎压倒了对支持民兵的任何担心。
ISIS has been rampaging through Iraq, beheading prisoners, carrying out massacres of Shiites and expelling hundreds of thousands of residents. The Shiite militias have been accused of some recent abuses against Sunnis, but so far have avoided large-scale revenge killings.
ISIS在伊拉克肆虐横行，对俘虏实施斩首，对什叶派进行屠杀，并驱逐了数十万居民。虽然有人指责什叶派民兵近期数次虐待逊尼派人士，但到目前为止，他们还没有开展过大规模仇杀。
Among the militias fighting for Amerli are Asaib Ahl al-Haq, considered the most fearsome of the Iraq’s Shiite militias, as well as a group linked to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, who was one of the Americans’ most unyielding enemies during the occupation. Those groups are supported by Iran.
在为阿莫利而战的民兵中，有被认为是伊拉克什叶派民兵组织中最为骇人的“正义联盟”(Asaib Ahl al-Haq)，还有一个组织和颇具影响力的什叶派神职人员穆克塔达·萨德尔(Moktada al-Sadr)有关系。美军占领伊拉克期间，此人是美国人最强硬的敌人之一。这些团体都获得了伊朗的支持。