A young, brash dictator in North Korea threatens to lob nuclear missiles at South Korea and its ally, the United States. From Washington, the leader of the world’s most powerful country threatens to slam the North with “fire and fury like the world has never seen.” Headlines brim with talk of possible war on the Korean Peninsula.
一个狂妄自大的朝鲜独裁者威胁要向韩国及其盟友美国发射核导弹。在华盛顿，世界最强大国家的领导者威胁要以“前所未见的炮火与怒火”痛击朝鲜。关于朝鲜半岛开战的头条充斥报端。
How do South Koreans react?
韩国人对此有何反应？
With a shrug.
耸耸肩。
I was born in South Korea and have reported on its region for American news media for most of my career — for The New York Times since 2005. And yet, whenever I have to report a recurring “crisis” over North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, I feel as if I am living in two different realities.
我生在韩国，职业生涯大部分时间在为美国新闻媒体报道该地区动态——从2005年开始在《纽约时报》至今。然而，每当我要报道有关朝鲜核武项目的一场反复再现的“危机”，我会觉得自己好像生活在两个不同的现实里。
On one hand, there is a deluge of urgent headlines: Analysts and pundits expound North Korea’s latest motives, serving up their newest estimates on its weapons capabilities. (And, of course, there are President Trump’s Twitter storms. But if he knows how to grab headlines with colorful language, North Korea has mastered that game for decades.)
一方面，到处是急切紧迫的新闻标题：分析师和专家们对朝鲜的最新举动详加分析，提出对其武器能力的最新评估。（当然，还有特朗普总统的Twitter风暴。不过，如果说他擅用生动的语言博取媒体的关注，那么朝鲜就是几十年来一直深谙此道。）
On the other hand, once I step outside the media and pundit circles, I meet a prevailing calm, even a nonchalance.
另一方面，一旦我走出媒体和专家的圈子，我见到的是无处不在的平静，甚至是淡漠。
The truth is, most South Koreans seem to take things in stride. People in Seoul on Friday evenings are as merry as ever, unmoved by the fact that their city of 10 million lies within the range of North Korean artillery, rockets and missiles.
事实上，多数韩国人对此是泰然处之的。周五晚的首尔和以往一样歌舞升平，这座1000万人口的城市处在朝鲜的火炮、火箭和导弹射程以内，但首尔人丝毫不以为意。
People here have complained about a recent heat wave more than they’ve discussed the possibility of war. None of my South Korean relatives called me about the North Korean threat. And South Korean journalist friends of mine were hoping, seriously, that they could get a trip to Guam out of the North Korea news. (It’s a popular vacation spot for South Koreans.)
相比讨论可能爆发的战争，他们更喜欢抱怨近来的高温天气。我的韩国亲戚从来不会打电话来问我关于朝鲜威胁的事。我的韩国记者朋友则真心期待这一轮朝鲜新闻让他们有机会去关岛出差。（那是一个很受韩国人欢迎的度假地点。）
All of which makes the shift from one of my worlds (news) to the other (ordinary life) feel as jarring as exiting a dark movie theater into bright daylight.
在我的世界（新闻）和另一个世界（百姓生活）之间辗转的我，因此十分矛盾，仿佛从一间阴暗的电影院出来，走进一片朗朗乾坤。
The seeming indifference among South Koreans can be explained in part by the simple fact that, despite talk of possible war, there are no telltale signs of either the United States or North Korea preparing to start one.
一定程度上，韩国人的这种满不在乎的样子可以归因于一个简单的事实：尽管在谈论战争的可能性，没有任何迹象表明美国或朝鲜在做开战准备。
What might those signs be? A mass movement of North Korean troops and weapons toward the border; the arrival of American warships; the evacuation of 200,000 American civilians, and far more expat Chinese, from South Korea; the elevation of the Defcon military alert status. None of these have been reported, and stock prices in South Korea have hardly blinked.
什么样的迹象才算呢？朝鲜军队和武器向边境大规模调动；有美国战舰抵达；20万美国平民以及更多的中国旅居者撤离韩国；美国国防戒备状态(Defcon)升级。这些都未见报道，韩国的股市也波澜不惊。
Behind the collective shrug among South Koreans is also a determination not to unsettle the status quo: a peace that has held for more than six decades under a cease-fire signed at the end of the Korean War. No matter how much they detest the regime in Pyongyang, South Koreans still consider North Koreans their brethren and want to avoid another internecine war.
在这种集体的耸肩姿态背后，是韩国人在坚决地维护现状：也就是朝鲜战争停火协议签署后这六十多年的和平时期。无论他们多么痛恨平壤政权，韩国人还是认为朝鲜人是同胞，希望避免又一场相互残杀的战争。
Still, the first thing I do when I wake up in the morning, even before I leave my bed, is to check the North Korean news agency to see if it has made another bombastic announcement — like the one in which the North recently threatened to launch ballistic missiles around Guam in an “enveloping fire.” But in spite of the rhetoric and the gravity of the military threat, many South Koreans insist that the best way to deal with the North is to keep calm and carry on, and to work together with the United States to deter and punish the North — while avoiding war.
然而，每天早上醒来，还躺在床上的我第一件事就是翻阅朝鲜新闻机构，看看是否又有重量级消息发布——比如朝鲜威胁要向关岛周围发射弹道导弹，令其被“火焰包围”。可就在这些军事威胁的言论和严峻事态面前，许多韩国人还是坚持认为，对付朝鲜的最佳方式是“保持冷静，继续前进”，与美国合作吓阻与惩罚朝鲜——同时避免战争。
The nonchalance isn’t posturing. After the North launched an intercontinental ballistic missile on July 28, President Moon Jae-in of South Korea went on vacation.
这种满不在乎不只是做做样子。在7月28日朝鲜发射一枚洲际弹道导弹后，韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)去度假了。
“He was busy posing for photos with tourists at vacation spots and didn’t even bother to call President Trump to discuss the North’s ICBM test,” Chung Woo-taik, a conservative opposition leader, said this week. (Mr. Moon talked with Mr. Trump on Aug. 7 after he returned from his trip.)
“他在度假地忙着摆姿势跟游客合影，甚至懒得致电特朗普总统谈论朝鲜的洲际导弹试射，”保守派反对党领袖郑宇泽(Chung Woo-taik)本周说。（文在寅在8月7日度假归来后与特朗普通了电话。）
But Mr. Moon’s supporters say overreacting to the North will only serve its leader Kim Jong-un’s strategy of appearing dangerous and reckless, as part of an effort to win concessions.
但是文在寅的支持者认为，对朝鲜的举动采取过激反应是在帮助金正恩，因为他的策略就是要显得危险而鲁莽，这是他争取赢得对手妥协的一种手段。
Many here seem to agree — with a shrug.
这里的很多人似乎也这样认为——同时耸耸肩。