In December 2012, the World Anti-Doping Agency received an email from an Olympic athlete from Russia. She was asking for help.
在2012年12月，世界反兴奋剂机构（World Anti-Doping Agency，简称WADA）收到一封电子邮件，发送者是俄罗斯的一名奥林匹克运动员。她想寻求帮助。
The athlete, a discus thrower named Darya Pishchalnikova, had won a silver medal four months earlier at the London Olympics. She said that she had taken banned drugs at the direction of Russian sports and anti-doping authorities, and that she had information on systematic doping in her country. Please investigate, she implored the agency in the email, which was written in English.
这位运动员名叫达娅·皮什查尔尼科娃(Darya Pishchalnikova)，从事铁饼投掷运动，四个月前在伦敦奥运会赢得了银牌。她说，自己曾在俄罗斯体育和反兴奋剂管理部门的指导下使用违禁药物，而且她拥有俄罗斯运动员系统性使用兴奋剂的信息。她在这封英文电子邮件中恳求该机构进行调查。
“I want to cooperate with WADA,” the email said.
“我想和WADA合作，”邮件中说。
But WADA, the global regulator of doping in Olympic sports, did not begin an inquiry, even though a staff lawyer circulated the message to three top officials, calling the accusations “relatively precise,” including names and facts. Instead, it sent Pishchalnikova’s email to Russian sports officials — the very people that she said were running the doping program.
然而，奥林匹克运动的兴奋剂全球监管机构WADA并没有展开调查，虽然该机构的一名律师把消息提交给了三名高级官员，称这些指控“相对精确”，包含了姓名和事实。不只如此，WADA还把皮什查尔尼科娃的邮件转发到了俄罗斯体育官员那里——也就是她所说的兴奋剂计划的执行者那里。
The tactics of the World Anti-Doping Agency have come under international scrutiny in recent months as major doping scandals emanating from Russia have escalated. Only after years of mounting clues of widespread doping did WADA recommend barring Russia’s track and field program from international competition; the global governing body for track and field is expected to decide Friday whether to bar Russia’s team from this summer’s Rio Olympics.
随着俄罗斯大型兴奋剂丑闻升级，近几个月来，WADA的举措受到了国际社会的审视。俄罗斯广泛使用兴奋剂的线索积累了好几年之后，WADA才终于禁止了俄罗斯田径队参与国际竞赛；全球田径管理机构预计将在本周五做出决定，是否禁止俄罗斯队参加今年夏天的里约奥运会。
Interviews with dozens of officials and athletes in the Olympic movement revealed that the global anti-doping watchdog was hampered by politics to the point that it was largely ineffective in its mission to protect the integrity of sports.
对参与奥林匹克运动的几十名官员和运动员进行的采访显示，这个全球性的反兴奋剂监督机构严重受制于政治，以致在保护体育诚信这项任务方面没有起到多少作用。
WADA’s decision-making body is composed of government and Olympics representatives, an arrangement that presents possible conflicts because Olympics officials might not be inclined to reveal doping transgressions that could mar the integrity of the games, while government officials could be more inclined to protect athletes from their own countries.
WADA的决策机构由政府和奥林匹克代表构成。这种安排可能会产生矛盾，因为奥林匹克官员可能不愿披露会有损比赛诚信的兴奋剂违规行为，而政府官员则可能更倾向于保护自己国家的运动员。
“There are conflicts all around the table,” said Adam Pengilly, an Olympic athlete from Britain who sits on the International Olympic Committee’s athletes’ commission.
“一直都有冲突，”来自英国的奥林匹克运动员亚当·彭杰利(Adam Pengilly)说。他是国际奥林匹克委员会(International Olympic Committee)下属的运动员委员会的成员。
Some WADA officials defended their handling of Russian doping allegations. They said their powers to combat doping have been limited, with scant resources and, until recently, no defined responsibility to conduct investigations. But other officials and athletes expressed a growing distrust of the agency’s leadership and a concern that it has shirked its responsibility to ensure clean competition.
一些WADA官员对自己处理俄罗斯兴奋剂指控的方式进行了辩护。他们称自己打击兴奋剂的权力有限，缺乏资源，进行调查的职责也是最近才确定下来。但其他官员和运动员对该机构的领导作用表现出了越来越多的不信任，并且担心它不愿履行确保公平竞争的责任。
“This systematic doping in Russia is being spread by WADA as sensational news, and it’s not the case,” said Arne Ljungqvist, a former medical commissioner for the Olympic committee and the IAAF, the governing body for track and field.
“WADA把俄罗斯这种系统性使用兴奋剂的情况当做轰动新闻来传播，但事实并非如此，”奥委员会和管理田径赛事的国际田联（International Association of Athletics Federations，简称IAAF）前医学委员阿恩·永奎斯特(Arne Ljungqvist)说。
“They could have made an investigation,” he said about the years during which WADA received repeated tips like Pishchalnikova’s email. “But they didn’t.”
“本应该进行调查，”他说。“但他们没有。”他指的是WADA多年来收到许多像皮什查尔尼科娃的邮件这样的举报。
Just days before the 2008 Beijing Games, seven female Russian track and field athletes were suspended for manipulating their urine samples for drug tests. One of those athletes was Pishchalnikova.
就在2008年北京奥运会开幕的几天前，七名俄罗斯田径女运动员因对接受药检的尿样作弊被取消参赛资格，皮什查尔尼科娃便是其中之一。
A year later, Russian athletes were implicated again. This time, biathlon world champion Ekaterina Iourieva and two of her teammates were barred from the world championships.
一年后，俄罗斯运动员再次卷入兴奋剂丑闻。这一次，冬季两项世界冠军叶卡捷琳娜·伊奥乌里耶娃(Ekaterina Iourieva)和她的两名队友被禁止参加世锦赛。
“We are facing systematic doping on a large scale in one of the strongest teams of the world,” Anders Besseberg, the president of the International Biathlon Union, said at the time.
“我们面临的情况是，全球数一数二的强队大规模系统性地服用兴奋剂，”国际冬季两项联盟(International Biathlon Union)主席安德斯·贝塞伯格(Anders Besseberg)在当时说。
The Russians were left to investigate themselves. The Russian Biathlon Union was fined and promised to scrutinize its own athletes.
俄罗斯被要求展开自查。俄罗斯冬季两项联盟(Russian Biathlon Union)被处以罚款，并承诺监督自己的运动员。
Ljungqvist, vice president of WADA from 2008 to 2013, said he repeatedly raised concerns about Russia. But in the end, he said, the inherent conflicts of interests within WADA and the Olympic movement won: The matter was tabled because “it was too politically infected,” he said.
在2008到2013年期间担任WADA副主席的永奎斯特说，他多次提出对俄罗斯的担忧。但最后，他说WADA和奥林匹克运动内部固有的利益冲突赢了：事情被搁置，因为“受政治的影响太严重”。
“WADA always had an excuse as to why they wouldn’t move forward,” Ljungqvist said, citing limited money and investigative resources. “They expected Russia to clean up themselves. They hadn’t fully grasped that WADA had the responsibility to do this.”
“对于为什么不推进，WADA总有借口，”永奎斯特说，并称WADA曾把资金和调查资源有限作为理由。“他们指望俄罗斯自己清理整顿。他们根本不明白WADA有责任去做这件事。”
Russian sports officials have acknowledged in recent months that the country has problems with doping, but they have emphatically denied charges of a state-run drug program and dismissed whistleblowers’ specific allegations.
俄罗斯体育官员在最近几个月承认，该国存在兴奋剂问题，但他们断然否认存在一个官方运作的兴奋剂计划，对举报者的具体指控也不予理会。
When the World Anti-Doping Agency was created in 1999, its official purpose was not to drug test or punish cheaters, but rather to serve as an independent watchdog for Olympic sports worldwide.
世界反兴奋剂机构1999年成立时，其正式的任务不是进行药检或惩罚作弊者，而是充当全球奥林匹克运动的独立监督机构。
“They were afraid sponsor money would dry up if the Olympics were perceived as dirty,” said Robert Weiner, a former spokesman for WADA and, previously, the U.S. Office of National Drug Control Policy.
“他们害怕如果奥运会被认为是有肮脏勾当的地方，赞助来源便会枯竭，”曾担任WADA和之前的美国国家药物控制政策办公室(Office of National Drug Control Policy)发言人的罗伯特·韦纳(Robert Weiner)说。
The U.S. government was especially wary about signing on to support an agency that did not appear independent. The International Olympic Committee is in charge of the Olympic Games, and derives tremendous revenue from them. IOC officials — specifically the head of the marketing commission — were going to lead WADA.
美国政府对出钱支持一个看上去不独立的机构特别警惕。国际奥委会负责管理奥运会，从中获得了巨额收入。WADA将由国际奥委会的官员来领导——具体来说是市场开发委员会主席。
Investigative powers were not explicitly written into the agency’s code. As time went on, many expected the organization to evolve into a more active regulator and testing body, separate from the IOC and the various world governing bodies overseeing Olympic sports. That never happened.
调查权未明确写进该机构的准则中。随着时间的推移，很多人希望它演变成一个更积极的监管和检测机构，独立于奥委会和奥林匹克运动的各种管理机构之外。但这一幕从未出现。
Instead, drug testing was largely left to national laboratories. In Russia, that lab was run by Grigory Rodchenkov, who said he routinely covered up positive tests in his 10 years there.
药检在很大程度上留给了各国的实验室。在俄罗斯，负责药检的实验室由格里戈里·罗琴科夫(Grigory Rodchenkov)领导。罗琴科夫自称在那里工作的十年时间里，他经常掩盖阳性检测结果。
For years, Vitaly Stepanov, who worked for Russia’s anti-doping agency, wondered about the motives of WADA officials.
多年里，曾就职于俄罗斯反兴奋剂机构的维塔利·斯捷潘诺夫(Vitaly Stepanov)一直好奇WADA官员的动机是什么。
“Everyone was telling me WADA is not an organization that fights doping,” Stepanov said. “It’s politics.”
“人人都告诉我WADA不是一个反兴奋剂机构，”斯捷潘诺夫说。“而是一个政治机构。”
At the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia, Stepanov met several WADA officials and secretly began blowing the whistle on Russia’s state-run doping program, as reported in 2015 by The Sunday Times of London. In subsequent years, he sent some 200 emails to WADA, he said, telling anti-doping officials everything he knew.
伦敦《星期日泰晤士报》(The Sunday Times)曾于2015年报道，在2010年的温哥华冬奥会上，斯捷潘诺夫见到了几名WADA官员，并在暗地里开始揭发俄罗斯政府开展的兴奋剂计划。他说随后几年里，他给WADA发了大约200封电子邮件，把自己知道的一切都告诉给了反兴奋剂官员。
“I’m writing to WADA what’s going on, and nothing is happening,” he said.
“我给WADA写信介绍正在发生的事情，但一点动静都没有，”他说。
Inside WADA’s offices in Montreal, the agency’s officials were not sure how to handle Stepanov’s claims. David Howman, the longtime director-general, said he thought to himself: “We don’t want to be the police. We can’t be the police.”
在WADA位于蒙特利尔的办公室里，该机构的官员不确定该如何处理斯捷潘诺夫的揭发。长期担任总干事的戴维·豪曼(David Howman)称，当时他心里的想法是：“我们不想当警察。我们也当不了警察。”
But he was aware that doping was becoming a criminal enterprise, and investigations — perhaps more than drug testing — were key to exposing cheaters. Howman eventually hired a top drug investigator from the United States: Jack Robertson, who would be the liaison between WADA and global law enforcement.
但他知道，使用兴奋剂正在成为一项犯罪活动，或许和药检相比，调查更是揭露作弊者的关键。最终，豪曼从美国请来顶级药物调查人员杰克·罗伯逊(Jack Robertson)，担任WADA和各国执法部门之间的联络人。
In September 2011, Robertson was assigned to tackle doping investigations for WADA. Officially, WADA’s explicit power to investigate would begin with a new code, approved in 2013 to take effect two years later — four years after Robertson was hired as staff investigator.
2011年9月，罗伯逊受命处理WADA的兴奋剂调查。理论上，WADA的调查权是和一部新规定一起生效的。该规定在2013年获得通过，两年后生效，也就是罗伯逊被聘为调查员四年后。
Still, there did not appear to be an appetite to look deeper into Russia, especially after a new president came on board in 2014. When Craig Reedie — a longtime IOC official — took over as head of the agency, the inquiry into Russia stalled, according to several people at WADA.
WADA似乎依然无意深入调查俄罗斯，特别是在2014年新主席上台后。据WADA的多名人士介绍，长期担任国际奥委会官员的克雷格·里迪(Craig Reedie)接任该机构的负责人后，对俄罗斯的调查停了下来。
Frustrated, Robertson forced WADA’s hand, according to several people in the organization. He leaked information on the case to Hajo Seppelt, a journalist for German broadcasting company ARD. Seppelt’s bombshell report, “The Secrets of Doping: How Russia Makes Its Winners,” aired on Dec. 3, 2014.
据该机构的多名人士称，心灰意冷的罗伯逊倒逼WADA采取行动。他将有关此事的信息透露给了德国广播公司ARD的记者哈约·泽佩尔特(Hajo Seppelt)。2014年12月3日，泽佩尔特的爆炸性报道《兴奋剂的秘密：俄罗斯如何制造冠军》(The Secrets of Doping: How Russia Makes Its Winners)播出。
On Dec. 8, 2014, Travis Tygart, chief executive of the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, sent a letter to Reedie and Howman at WADA, insisting that the agency had investigative power and that it needed to apply it to Russia.
2014年12月8日，美国反兴奋剂机构负责人特拉维斯·迪加尔特(Travis Tygart)致信WADA的里迪和豪曼，坚称该机构具有调查权且有必要对俄罗斯行使这项权力。
“For WADA to sit on the sidelines in the face of such allegations flies in the face of WADA’s mandate from sport, governments and clean athletes,” Tygart wrote.
“面对这样的指控，WADA若是坐视不理，便与体育、政府和干净的运动员赋予WADA的权力背道而驰，”迪加尔特写道。
Days later, WADA commissioned an independent inquiry, whose findings were published in November 2015. Russia was accused of widespread government-supported doping in an explosive 323-page report that centered on track and field. But not everything investigators had unearthed — including Pishchalnikova’s 2012 email, and WADA’s handling of it — made it into the report.
几天后，WADA委托开展独立调查。2015年11月，调查的结果公开发布。在一份以田径为中心的长达323页的爆炸性报告中，俄罗斯被指存在广泛的政府支持使用兴奋剂的情况。但报告并未呈现调查人员发现的全部情况，包括皮什查尔尼科娃2012年那封电子邮件，以及WADA对邮件的处理。
In her 2012 email, Pishchalnikova named Rodchenkov, the anti-doping lab director whose facility had recently been flagged by WADA for suspicious test results. She said he was substituting out athletes’ steroid-laced urine with clean urine. “I have proof,” the 2012 email said.
在2012年那封邮件中，皮什查尔尼科娃提到了俄罗斯反兴奋剂实验室主任罗琴科夫的名字，当时该实验室刚被WADA标为检测结果可疑不久。皮什查尔尼科娃称，罗琴科夫用不含违禁品的尿液替换运动员含类固醇的尿液。“我有证据，”2012年的那封邮件写道。
The agency’s decision to forward the email to track and field officials — including Russian ones who were implicated in the allegations — was a function of protocol. Despite having hired a staff investigator, WADA did not at that time see itself as capable of conducting investigations, the agency has said.
该机构决定将邮件转发给田径官员，包括和指控有牵连的俄罗斯官员——这属于按规定行事。该机构称，尽管已聘请了一名调查员，但WADA当时认为自己不具备进行调查的能力。
Four months after Pishchalnikova wrote to WADA, the Russian track and field federation banned her for 10 years. She is retired from competition and living in Russia. Attempts to reach her were unsuccessful.
给WADA写信一事过去四个月后，皮什查尔尼科娃被俄罗斯田径协会禁赛十年。现在，她已退役，生活在俄罗斯。记者试图联系她，但未能成功。
Reedie said he had never heard of Pishchalnikova’s email. “We need people to come to us with evidence, and then we will investigate,” he said.
里迪称自己从未听说皮什查尔尼科娃的电子邮件一事。“我们需要有人提供证据，然后才能调查，”他说。
Meanwhile, athletes have in recent months agitated for further inquiries.
与此同时，运动员最近几个月在呼吁进行进一步的调查。
“Clean athletes are at the point where we can’t have faith in the system,” said Lauryn Williams, a U.S. sprinter and bobsledder.
“干净的运动员目前对这个制度还是没有信心，”美国短跑和雪橇运动员劳琳·威廉斯(Lauryn Williams)说。