BERLIN — Germany’s finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, who has come under criticism for his handling of the Greek debt crisis, indicated in an interview published on Saturday that he was prepared to resign rather than go against his convictions.
柏林——德国财政部长沃尔夫冈·朔伊布勒(Wolfgang Schäuble)因为应对希腊债务危机的态度而遭到不少批评。在周六公布的采访文章中，他表示愿意辞职，而不是违背自己的信念。
Asked by the weekly Der Spiegel about differences between his tough stance with Greece and the greater flexibility shown by Chancellor Angela Merkel, Mr. Schäuble admitted that “one sometimes has different opinions.”
当《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)问及他在希腊问题上的强硬立场与德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)展现出的更大的灵活性之间的差异时，朔伊布勒承认“有时会有不同的观点”。
“And then one tries together to find solutions. In that process each has their role,” he said. “Angela Merkel is the chancellor, I am the finance minister. Politicians derive their responsibility from their offices. Nobody can force them. If somebody would try that, I could go to the president and request my dismissal.”
“然后我们一起努力寻找解决方案。在这个过程中，每个人发挥各自的作用，”他说。“安格拉·默克尔是总理，我是财长。政治人物的职责源自职务本身。没人能强迫什么。如果有人试图这么做，我会向总统提出解职请求。”
It was the first time that Mr. Schäuble had mentioned resignation in the months of debate over Greece’s debt, during which he expressed a much harder line toward Greece than Ms. Merkel, whose agenda included not only Germany’s needs but also the health of the European Union. Asked if he was thinking about resigning, Mr. Schäuble told Der Spiegel: “No, how do you come to that?”
这是近几个月出现有关希腊债务危机的争论以来，朔伊布勒首次提到辞职。与默克尔相比，他在希腊问题上表达的立场要强硬得多。默克尔的议程不仅包括德国的需求，还要考虑欧盟的健康发展。当被问及是否在考虑辞职时，朔伊布勒对《明镜》表示，“没有，你们怎么会有这样的想法？”
“Mrs. Merkel and I have one constant: we know that we can rely on one another,” he said.
“我和默克尔有一点是不变的：我们知道可以依靠彼此，”他说。
Asked for comment, Mr. Schäuble’s spokesman, Martin Jäger, said only that the interview spoke for itself.
听到置评请求时，朔伊布勒的发言人马丁·耶格尔(Martin Jäger)仅表示，采访本身说明了一切。
It appeared a day after German lawmakers voted to open negotiations on a third bailout for Greece. Although Ms. Merkel had a comfortable majority, she faced the biggest revolt to date among her conservative deputies: 439 lawmakers voted in favor of moving ahead with the bailout deal that European leaders negotiated last weekend in Brussels. There were 119 votes against, and 40 legislators abstained.
这篇采访文章问世的前一天，德国议员表决同意就针对希腊的第三轮救助计划开启谈判。虽然默克尔轻松地赢得多数票，但她面临了来自保守派同僚的迄今为止最强烈的反对：439名议员投票支持推进欧洲领导人上周末在布鲁塞尔谈判达成的救助协议。119人反对，40人弃权。
Ms. Merkel and Mr. Schäuble had urged Parliament to back the bailout, which both called “a last attempt” to order Greece’s finances and build a functioning state. It would be Greece’s third bailout in five years, and it was negotiated with the goal of keeping the country in the eurozone.
表决前，默克尔和朔伊布勒敦促议会支持救助计划，两人均表示这是理清希腊财政状况并建立一个正常运转的国家的“最后一搏”。这将是希腊五年来接受的第三轮救助计划，而达成这一协议是为了使希腊留在欧元区。
But a breakdown of the vote showed that among the 119 votes against starting talks on a new package, 60 were from members of Ms. Merkel’s conservative bloc; another five abstained and four did not vote. That opposition was double the number in February, when Parliament last voted on Greek debt relief.
不过，议会的表决统计显示，在反对就新救助计划开启谈判的119张票中，有60票来自默克尔的保守派阵营，另有五人弃权，四人没有投票。此次表决的反对票数比2月份议会上次就希腊债务减免问题表决的时候要多出了一倍。
Mr. Schäuble’s support for the bailout is considered crucial to retaining conservative backing in the next key parliamentary vote which would be to approve or reject whatever package is negotiated in coming weeks. In that sense, his public dalliance with resignation seemed intended to underscore for the chancellor how much she needed his support, also in what could become fiercer quarrels with the Social Democrats, the center-left party that is Ms. Merkel’s partner in her grand coalition government.
外界认为，为了保证保守派在议会的下一次关键性表决中继续投支持票，朔伊布勒对救助计划的支持至关重要。下次表决的内容将是支持或拒绝接收未来几周谈判达成的救助计划。从这种意义上来看，他公开谈论辞职的举动似乎是为了向总理强调，她有多么需要自己的支持。此外，这种支持的重要性还体现在保守派或许会与社会民主党(Social Democratic)之间爆发的更为激烈的争吵中。该中左翼政党是默克尔领导的大联合政府的合作伙伴。
Although the Social Democrats overwhelmingly backed Friday’s proposal, they warned Mr. Schäuble against repeating his admonitions that Greece would be better off exiting the eurozone. He dropped the stance in time for Friday’s vote.
虽然绝大多数社会民主党人支持了周五的提案，但他们警告朔伊布勒不要一再劝诫希腊退出欧元区会更好。在周五的表决前，他及时放弃了这一立场。