CHONGQING, China — For more than a decade, Chinese automakers have been talking about starting large-scale exports to North America and Europe, prompting periodic worries in the West that companies like General Motors, Ford and Volkswagen might be crippled by Chinese competition the way they were by Japanese imports a generation ago.
中国重庆——十多年来，中国汽车制造商一直在谈论开始向北美和欧洲大规模出口汽车的事情，让西方每隔一段时间就会担忧来自中国的竞争，可能会冲击像通用汽车(General Motors)、福特(Ford)和大众汽车(Volkswagen)这样的公司，就如同二、三十年前的日本进口汽车一样。
Now there are calls for protectionism, but from an unexpected direction: the biggest, most politically influential Chinese automakers.
但现在，保护主义的呼声却从一个意想不到的地方传来：规模最大、政治影响力也最大的中国汽车制造商。
Multinational corporations are steadily clawing market share from Chinese brands in their home market, as a succession of global brands have pushed their way into China. The latest insurgent is Ford Motor, which has a joint venture based here in Chongqing and has nearly doubled its market share to 4.5 percent in the last two years by introducing new models and expanding output, selling more than 100,000 cars and light truck in March for the first time in a single month. Ford plans to double production again in the coming year by opening two more assembly plants and one of the world’s largest automatic transmission factories.
随着全球知名汽车品牌相继进军中国市场，跨国公司正在稳步蚕食中国品牌的本土市场份额。最近的一个大举动来自福特，它在重庆有一家合资企业；通过推出新车型和扩大产量，这家合资企业的市场份额两年来将近翻了一番，达到4.5%；今年3月，它的汽车和轻型卡车销量超过10万辆，创下了单月最高销售纪录。福特计划在未来一年里再开两家汽车装配厂，以及一家全球规模最大的自动变速箱生产厂，把生产规模扩大一倍。
Chinese consumers increasingly favor American brands, which have a reputation for safety, youth and international flair. The domestic brands have tended to lag in surveys of initial quality and engineering, although they are starting to close the gap. In long-term reliability, they are far behind and falling even further.
中国消费者日益青睐美国品牌，因为它们享有安全、朝气蓬勃，具有国际化风格的声誉。一些问卷调查显示，国产品牌在新车质量和制造工艺方面的得分往往比较靠后，不过差距也在开始缩小。而在长期可靠性上，国产品牌远远落在后面，差距甚至还在进一步拉大。
Rising affluence has left consumers reluctant to accept cheaper, spartan models from domestic manufacturers. The domestic brands have been further hurt by poor crash test results for some Chinese-designed models and a series of food safety scandals that have dented public confidence in Chinese regulations.
日益富裕起来的消费者已经不愿再购买国内厂商较为便宜、简朴的车型。中国设计的一些车型在碰撞测试中表现糟糕。此外，一系列食品安全丑闻也令公众对中国监管的信心下降，这更是进一步打击了国产品牌。
“Now that I have a child, I’m considering shifting to a safer car like a Ford,” said He Hai, a 29-year-old real estate salesman, as he browsed at a dealership.
“现在我有了孩子，正在考虑换一辆更安全的车，比如福特，”29岁的房地产销售人员何海（音译）在一家汽车经销店看车的时候说。
He was preparing to pay 254,800 renminbi ($41,500), including hefty Chinese taxes, for a light green Ford Kuga.
他打算花25.48万元人民币买一辆浅绿色福特翼虎(Kuga)。这是含税价格，中国的税率非常高。
China’s mostly state-owned automakers have responded with an unusually public campaign of news conferences and statements by the industry trade association. They want to persuade China’s Commerce Ministry to retain a requirement seldom found in other top manufacturing nations: Foreign automakers may assemble cars in China only through 50-50 joint ventures with domestic partners.
中国的汽车制造商多数是国有的，这些企业采取了不同寻常的回应方式，要求行业协会召开新闻发布会、发布声明来发起公关攻势，希望说服中国商务部保留这样一则限制：外国汽车制造商只能通过与国内厂商合资的方式在中国组装汽车，而且外资股份的比例不能超过50%。这种要求在其他制造大国很少见。
The multinationals have not asked to be set free. Instead, the Commerce Ministry raised the idea of dropping the requirement last autumn, fearing that industrialized nations would use the restrictive rules as justification for protectionism someday if China starts exporting large numbers of cars. But the big state-owned companies are less interested in exports than in having the multinationals tied to their partners indefinitely — and collecting the sizable profits that come with those relationships.
要求放开这项限制的并不是跨国公司，是商务部去年秋季产生了取消它的想法，原因是担心如果中国有朝一日开始大量出口汽车，那么发达国家会把这个限制性规则作为采取保护主义的理由。但大型国有企业更关心的并不是出口，而是让跨国公司无限期地跟本土合作伙伴捆绑在一起，并从这种联姻中获取可观的利润。
“If there is a loosening of the restrictions on foreign ownership in automotive shares, it will instigate massive changes in the configuration of our country’s automotive industry,” Dong Yang, the executive vice chairman and secretary general of the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, warned in a statement at a recent news conference.
“如果放开汽车整车股比的限制，我国汽车产业的格局将发生重大变化，”中国汽车工业协会常务副会长兼秘书长董扬在近期一场新闻发布会上警告说。
The industry is not entirely in agreement. Slightly smaller automakers started by entrepreneurs do not have the same incentives to maintain the status quo since they generally don’t have joint venture partners. They are also much more eager to move into foreign markets, through exports and overseas acquisitions.
业内人士的意见并非完全一致。规模略小的汽车生产商就没有这种维持现状的动机，因为它们通常没有合资伙伴。而且它们也更热衷于通过出口和海外收购的方式进入国外市场。
Li Shufu, the chairman and founder of the privately held Geely Holdings Group, wrote in an email interview last month that he thought the 50 percent cap should be abolished.
李书福是私营企业吉利控股集团(Geely Holdings Group)的董事长和创始人，上个月他在一次电邮采访中写道：他认为50%的上​​限应该取消。
“The cap has hindered fair, open and transparent competition, which undermines the interests of consumers and the overall competitiveness of the Chinese auto industry,” he wrote.
他写道，“这个上限阻碍了竞争的公平、公开和透明，损害了消费者的利益和中国汽车产业的整体竞争力。”
Mr. Li’s personal holding company bought Volvo Cars from Ford for $1.5 billion in 2010, paying a bargain price during the financial crisis.
2010年，李书福自己的控股公司斥资15亿美元，从福特手中收购了沃尔沃汽车(Volvo Cars)，由于时值金融危机这个价钱相当便宜。
State-owned automakers have been more cautious, with one of the largest, Dongfeng Motor, agreeing on Feb. 26 to pay $1.1 billion for a 14 percent stake in Peugeot — a holding that cements the two companies’ venture in China but gives Dongfeng little say in Peugeot’s management.
国有汽车制造商行事更加谨慎。但是规模最大的国有企业之一东风汽车，今年2月26日承诺以11亿美元的价格从标致(Peugeot)手中购买14%的股份——此举可以巩固两家公司在中国的合资企业，但是几乎不会让东风在标致的经营管理方面拥有发言权。
Wary of offending their state-owned partners, multinationals have defended the joint ventures. “It is our common goal to further develop these and to be successful together in the Chinese automotive market,” Volkswagen said in a statement.
跨国公司不愿意得罪中方合作伙伴，于是站在了支持合资的立场上。“进一步发展这些企业，一起在中国汽车市场获得成功，这是我们的共同目标，”大众汽车在一份声明中说。
China has been trying for more than two decades to build the country’s auto industry into an export powerhouse. The original goal of the joint venture requirement was to force multinationals to work with big, state-owned automakers with ample access to credit from state-owned banks. The ministry’s hope has been that the state-owned automakers would learn from their partners to build world-class cars that they could then export.
二十多年来，中国一直试图成为一个汽车出口大国。要求成立合资企业的初衷就是迫使跨国公司与大型国有汽车制造商合作，后者可以从国有银行获得充足的贷款。商务部希望国有汽车制造商能从外国合作伙伴那里学会如何生产世界一流的​​汽车，以便出口国外。
But instead of creating the next Toyota, the Commerce Ministry has created companies more like Foxconn, the Taiwanese contract electronics manufacturer that makes tablets and smartphones for Apple and other consumer electronics companies.
然而，商务部规定催生的这些公司更像是富士康(Foxconn)，而不是“下一个丰田(Toyota)”。富士康是台湾电子代工制造商，为苹果和其他消费电子产品公司制造平板电脑和智能手机。
State-controlled giants largely provide the labor and government connections for the joint ventures: Shanghai Automotive is a partner for General Motors and Volkswagen; Guangzhou Automobile is the partner for Toyota; Changan Automobile is a partner for Ford; and Dongfeng Motor juggles partnerships with Nissan, Honda, Peugeot and Kia.
在很大程度上，这些国有大公司为合资企业提供了劳动力和政府关系：上海汽车是通用汽车和大众汽车的合作伙伴；广汽是丰田的合作伙伴；长安汽车是福特的合作伙伴；东风汽车先后跟日产(Nissan)、本田(Honda)、标致和起亚(Kia)成为合作伙伴。
The multinationals have continued to provide most of the designs, engineering and marketing. They build essentially the same cars that they sell in the rest of the world. In Chongqing, for example, Ford makes the Kuga and Mondeo, which are sold as the Ford Escape and Ford Fusion in the United States.
大部分的设计、工艺和营销工作仍然由跨国公司提供。他们生产的基本上是其在世界各地出售的那些汽车，比如福特在重庆生产的翼虎和蒙迪欧(Mondeo)，在美国分别以Ford Escape和Ford Fusion的名字销售。
The Chinese automakers’ association, dominated by the state-owned enterprises, insists that the industry is too important to the country’s economic future to be exposed now to head-to-head competition with foreign companies.
由国企主导的汽车工业协会坚称，汽车行业对中国经济的未来非常重要，目前还不能跟外国公司开展直接竞争。
“Automobile manufacturing is not a standard manufacturing sector. It is a strategic asset that supports the transformation and upgrading of the national economy,” said Mr. Dong of the association.
“汽车产业不是一般的制造业，而是支撑国民经济转型升级的战略性产业，”该协会的董扬说。
Chinese brands’ share of their home market for cars and light trucks has fallen at much the same pace that American automakers lost share over most of the last three decades, about a percentage point or two each year, down to 45.1 percent last year. Exclude the bare-bones pickup trucks and minivans that make up the separately regulated light commercial vehicle market, and domestic brands had only 29.5 percent of the car market last year, according to LMC Automotive, a global consultancy.
在中国，本土品牌的轿车和轻型卡车市场份额去年降至45.1%，其每年约一两个百分点的下降步伐，跟美国汽车制造商在过去三十年中绝大部分时间的情况非常相似。全球咨询企业艾尔西汽车市场咨询公司(LMC Automotive)的数据显示，除了最基本的皮卡和面包车之外，去年国产品牌只占汽车市场29.5%的份额。最基本的皮卡和面包车构成了轻型商用车市场，单独受到监管。
Most of the state-owned giants have experimented with their own brands, but with limited success. Their offerings frequently look a lot like the cars from their partners; executives at other manufacturers have suggested that Changan’s cars look like those of Ford and Ford’s Japanese affiliate, Mazda, which ended its joint venture last autumn.
多数国有大公司已经在试验生产自有品牌的汽车，但是成果不佳。这些汽车看起来往往跟他们合作伙伴的产品很相似；其他厂商的高管认为，长安的车看起来像是福特的，或者是福特日本子公司马自达(Mazda)的。去年秋天，马自达和长安的合资企业终止了运营。
Marin A. Burela, the president of Ford’s joint venture here, the Changan Ford Automobile Company, said Mazda and Changan had decided to end their collaboration for business reasons that had nothing to do with Changan’s car designs. He denied that Changan’s own brand cars looked like Fords or Mazdas.
马瑞麟(Marin A. Burela)是福特和长安的合资企业，长安福特汽车公司的总裁，他说马自达和长安决定终止合作关系是出自商业考量，跟长安的汽车设计毫无关系。他否认长安自主品牌的汽车看上去像福特或者马自达。
“I’ve heard that said, but I also go back and look at the vehicles and I don’t see it,” he said.
“我听到过这种说法，我也回头去看了看那些车，但我没有发现这种情况，”他说。
Ford’s rapid expansion in China over the last two years, with more to come, offers a case study of how China’s own automakers have gone from feared to hapless.
中国本土的汽车制造商如何从令人敬畏变得处境堪忧，福特过去两年在中国的快速扩张以及计划中的进一步扩张，提供了一个值得参考的个案。