Patients who get facial plastic surgery often assume that they will look younger and more appealing afterward. But a new study, the first to try to quantify attractiveness after a face-lift, brow-lift or eyelid surgery, found only a tiny, insignificant increase in attractiveness. The study, published online in JAMA Facial Plastic Surgery on Thursday, also found that patients looked, on average, only three years younger, as judged by independent viewers who assessed photos of patients before and after cosmetic surgery.
接受面部整形手术的患者通常会假设，术后自己将会看上去更年轻且更具吸引力。不过，一项新研究首次尝试对面部提升、眉额提升和眼睑手术后的吸引力进行了量化，结果发现，患者的吸引力仅有微不足道的提升。该研究周四发表在期刊《美国医学会面部整形外科文献》(JAMA Facial Plastic Surgery)的网站上。研究还发现，根据独立评分者观看患者整形前后的照片作出的判断，看上去他们仅平均年轻了3岁。
The findings will probably provide scant comfort to the more than 120,000 American men and women who last year got face-lifts, a procedure that marketing efforts often claim can turn the clock back a decade.
对于12万多名去年进行了面部提升术的美国男女，这些发现大概没带来多少安慰，因为营销广告中常说，这项手术能让人年轻10岁。
Dr. A. Joshua Zimm, the lead author of the study and a facial plastic surgeon at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, said, “I don’t want people to think, ‘Oh, if I get a face-lift, I’ll only look three years younger.’ This study includes people who just had an eyelift or a brow lift.”
论文的第一作者A·乔舒亚·齐姆博士(A. Joshua Zimm)是曼哈顿勒诺克斯山医院(Lenox Hill Hospital)的面部整形外科医生。他说，“我不希望人们认为，‘啊，如果我去做面部提升术，只能看起来年轻3岁。’这项研究里还包括只做过眼睑或眉额提升手术的人。”
For the study, 50 raters looked at randomly assigned binders of 49 patients, ages 42 to 73, who had undergone cosmetic procedures with Dr. Peter A. Adamson, a surgeon in Toronto. No one rater saw pre- and postoperative shots of the same person, lest they deduce the study’s aim, and at a six-month follow-up, patients were excluded if they had had a nose job or injections of anti-wrinkle medicines like Botox.
在研究中，50名评分者观看随机分配的49名患者的照片资料。患者年龄从42岁到73岁不等，都曾在多伦多的外科医生彼得·A·亚当森博士(Peter A. Adamson)那里接受过整形手术。评分者均未看到同一人的术前和术后照片，以免他们推断出研究目的。此外，研究人员还于6个月后进行了一次随访，将做过鼻整形术或注射过肉毒素(Botox)等抗皱药物的患者排除到研究之外。
The raters estimated patients’ ages to be about 2.1 years younger, on average, than their chronological age before surgery, and 5.2 years younger after surgery, an overall difference of 3.1 years, with minimal changes in attractiveness. A 2012 study of Dr. Adamson’s patients had found, on average, a seven-year reduction in perceived age, but that study used less rigorous criteria.
对于术前照片，评分者对患者年龄的估计平均要比实际值年轻2.1岁，术后则是年轻5.2岁，总体差别为3.1岁，而吸引力方面的变化则微乎其微。2012年发表的一篇论文也以亚当森医生的患者做为研究对象，其中发现，患者看上去平均年轻了7岁，但该研究采用的标准并没有如此严格。
Several plastic surgeons credited the researchers for the rigor of the current study, including the use of blinded raters.
数名整形外科医生赞扬了本次研究的严谨性，包括使用了盲性评分者。
“It’s a big deal that a study is presenting a negative finding,” said Dr. Eric Swanson, a plastic surgeon in Leawood, Kan., who was not involved in the current research. In 2011, he conducted the first of only a handful of studies that have sought to quantify apparent age change after facial surgery. “They are saying that patients didn’t have a change in attractiveness.”
未参与本次研究的堪萨斯州利伍德的整形外科医生埃里克·斯旺森博士(Eric Swanson)说，“研究提出了负面结论，这真是件大事。”他曾于2011年进行过一项研究，试图量化面部整形手术后看上去的年龄改变，属于该领域少数几项研究中的第一个。“他们的意思是，患者在吸引力上没什么变化。”
Dr. Zimm, the lead author, said he was surprised by the “insignificant finding for attractiveness.” He noted that 60 percent of raters scored patients between 4 and 6 on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being the most comely, so there was not much variation in overall attractiveness scores. He guessed that future research “will show a difference in attractiveness, if we have a larger sample size, and just analyze attractiveness alone.”
第一作者齐姆医生称，“发现吸引力的改变微不足道”让他十分惊讶。他指出，60%的评分者给患者打出的分数在4到6之间。评分范围是1到10，其中10代表最美。因此，总体吸引力分数没有多大的差异性。他猜测，未来的研究“如能拥有更大的样本数，并且仅分析吸引力一项的话，将显示出这方面的差异”。
The very nature of what we consider “old” today also played a role in the results, said Nancy Etcoff, a psychologist at Harvard Medical School and the author of “Survival of the Prettiest: The Science of Beauty.” This study looked only at surgical results, and didn’t use laser resurfacing to address brown splotches and or fat injections to add volume. But a loss of plumpness in a face reads old, as do wrinkles or age spots, she said.
哈佛大学医学院(Harvard Medical School)的心理学研究者南希·埃克特(Nancy Etcoff)著有《最美者生存：美的科学》(Survival of the Prettiest: The Science of Beauty)一书。她认为，今天我们认为的“衰老”特性也对研究结果起到了一定作用。该研究只分析了手术结果，并没有使用激光表面重建技术处理黄褐斑，或者使用脂肪注射提升面部饱满度。她表示，面部饱满度下降就会显老，与皱纹和老人斑一样。
“They’re looking at a face that looks older in some ways, and younger in some ways,” she said. “It’s difficult for the raters, and confusing.”
“他们研究的面部，在某些方面看起来较老，在另一些方面看起来较年轻。对于评估者来说，这很难、很困惑，”她说。
Dr. James M. Stuzin, a Miami plastic surgeon who specializes in face-lifts, thought the study’s findings had limited generalizability. “A lot of patients show better improved perceived age and attractiveness than what was noted in this study,” he said. The study did not include pictures and, without them, “we don’t know what technique was utilized,” he said. “Definitely technique and a surgeon’s skill level influences results.”
擅长面部提升术的迈阿密整形外科医生詹姆斯·M·斯图增博士(James M. Stuzin)认为，研究结果的普适性有限。他说，“与该研究中发现的结果相比，许多病人显示出外表年龄和吸引力方面更大的改善。”他表示，研究论文并未包含照片，这样的话，“我们不知道都采用了哪些技术，而技术和手术医师的技巧水平无疑会影响结果。”
Dr. Val Lambros, a plastic surgeon in Newport Beach, Calif., lauded the researchers’ conscientiousness and their good-faith effort to quantify perceived age improvement and attractiveness after surgery. ‘It’s remarkably hard to do a study like this,” he said.
加州纽波特比奇的整形外科医生瓦尔·兰布鲁斯博士(Val Lambros)对研究者进行了称赞，说他们很认真负责，而且在对手术后病人减龄及吸引力增加的效果进行量化时很诚实。他说，“要进行这样的研究极其困难。”
However, he cautioned, “assigning numbers has an incredible potential to be misused.” Imagine the competing advertisements, he said, with one surgeon saying, “My operation makes people look 4.2 years younger” and another crowing, “Mine makes patients look like Girl Scouts.”
但他也警告，“设定数字的话，被误用的可能性非常之高。”他说，想想相互竞争的广告吧：一名整形医生说，“我的手术让人看起来年轻4.2岁。”而另外一名医生说，“我的手术让患者看起来像女童子军。”
Allan Imbraguglio, a 55-year-old information technology specialist in Washington, got upper and lower eyelid surgery in April. He wasn’t looking “to shave off five years or three years of my age,” he said. “I just wanted to feel better about myself.” He said that eliminating his “tired look” helped him project the image of someone “up for the work of a younger person.”
今年4月，华盛顿55岁的信息技术专家阿兰·因布拉古格里奥(Allan Imbraguglio)做了上下眼睑手术。他说，自己不是要“年轻三岁或五岁，而是要自我感觉良好一点。”他还表示，消除了“疲态”，使他的形象变得“适宜进行年轻点的人做的工作”。
That said, he hardly complained when a colleague told him he looked 50.
也就是说，当他的同事说，他看起来像50岁的时候，他并不会抱怨。