MANILA — As Filipinos prepare for the 30th anniversary on Thursday of the “People Power” revolution that toppled Ferdinand E. Marcos, the Marcos family legacy is undergoing a political renaissance by those who claim it was a “golden age” of peace and prosperity.
马尼拉——在菲律宾筹备周四的“人民力量”革命30周年之际，在那场革命中被推翻的费迪南德·E·马科斯(Ferdinand E. Marcos)所在家族的实力，正在政坛复苏。推动这场复苏的人声称，马科斯统治时期是一个和平、繁荣的“黄金时代”。
“I think Marcos was our best president,” said Richard Negre, a Manila resident who was born two years after the dictator was overthrown. “That was when the Philippines was the leader of Asia. We were respected.”
“我认为马科斯是我们国家最优秀的总统，”马尼拉市民理查德·内格雷(Richard Negre)说。他是在这位独裁者被推翻两年后出生的。“那时候菲律宾在亚洲领先。我们受人敬重。”
Ferdinand Marcos, who died in exile in Hawaii in 1989, ruled the Philippines with an iron fist for two decades, with his wife Imelda, whose lavish lifestyle — and thousands of pairs of shoes — became a global symbol of greed and corruption. Marcos was removed from power in 1986 when millions of Filipinos poured into the streets for days of peaceful protests.
1989年，费迪南德·马科斯在流亡夏威夷期间去世。他对菲律宾实行了长达20年的铁腕统治。其妻伊梅尔达(Imelda)的奢华生活方式——以及她那几千双鞋——在全球成了贪婪和腐败的标志。1986年，数百万菲律宾人涌上街头，举行了数天的和平抗议，马科斯被赶下台。
But in the decades since Marcos was ousted and fled the country, the outrage has faded for many Filipinos. Despite the accusations of widespread corruption and human rights violations, none of the Marcos family members have been jailed. The family has quietly returned to politics — Mrs. Marcos is a now member of Congress, while her daughter Imee Marcos is a governor.
但在马科斯被赶下台并逃离菲律宾之后的几十年里，很多菲律宾人的愤恨逐渐消失了。尽管被指存在广泛的腐败和侵犯人权的行为，但马科斯家族的成员无一入狱。这个家族已悄悄回归政坛。伊梅尔达现在是国会议员，其女伊梅·马科斯(Imee Marcos)是一名省长。
The family’s political resurgence is led by Marcos’s son, Ferdinand Marcos Jr., known as Bongbong, a popular senator who is tied for first place in the vice president’s race for the May 9 national election, according to a recent survey.
带领马科斯家族在政坛东山再起的，是马科斯的儿子小费迪南德·马科斯(Ferdinand Marcos Jr.)。小马科斯又名邦邦(Bongbong)，是一名颇受欢迎的参议员，目前正在竞选副总统。菲律宾的全国大选将于5月9日举行。最近的一项调查显示，他的支持率与对手并列第一。
Mr. Marcos has built a coalition from his father’s remaining supporters and young people who were not alive when martial law was declared in the 1970s. He is also backed by the well-funded families who benefited from the Marcos presidency, according to Ramon C. Casiple, executive director of the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in Manila.
小马科斯与他父亲仍在世的支持者，以及70年代实行戒严时尚未出生的年轻人建立了联盟。据马尼拉政治与选举改革研究所(Institute for Political and Electoral Reform)常务主任拉蒙·C·卡赛普尔(Ramon C. Casiple)称，小马科斯还得到了一些财力雄厚的家族的支持。在费迪南德·马科斯担任总统期间，这些家族均得到了好处。
Mr. Marcos has also drawn close to popular politicians. He often appears at rallies with the boxer Manny Pacquiao, a senatorial candidate who is loved by millions of Filipinos. Miriam Defensor Santiago, Mr. Marcos’s running mate, has a large following among young people on social media.
同时，小马科斯还向受欢迎的政界人士靠拢。他经常和受到数百万菲律宾人喜爱的拳击手、参议员候选人曼尼·帕奎奥(Manny Pacquiao)一同在集会上现身。他的竞选搭档米里亚姆·德芬索·圣地亚哥(Miriam Defensor Santiago)在社交媒体上拥有大量年轻粉丝。
On the campaign trail, Mr. Marcos usually discusses his plans for the future, but he has also touched on what his father’s supporters consider the “golden age” of the Philippines.
竞选期间，小马科斯通常会讨论自己对未来的计划，但他也谈到了他父亲的支持者所认为的菲律宾的“黄金时代”。
Imelda Orduña, a 70-year-old retired schoolteacher living in the city of Caloocan, north of Manila, who attended one of his recent political rallies, said she remembers well the time of Marcos when there was no traffic, police officers did not extract bribes and criminals were on the run.
70岁的伊梅尔达·奥杜纳(Imelda Orduña)是一名退休教师，生活在马尼拉北边的加洛坎市。她参加了小马科斯最近举行的一场政治集会，称自己清楚地记得马科斯当总统那个时期，那时候交通不拥堵、警察不索贿、犯罪分子遭到通缉。
“Life was easier under Marcos,” she said. “We had peace and order and corruption was minimal. We have to tell our children and grandchildren about these times.”
“马科斯当总统时的生活更轻松，”她说。“和平有序，腐败现象极少。我们得让子孙知道这样的时代。”
Mr. Marcos was campaigning and not available for an interview, according to his staff, but during a television interview in August he said he would not apologize for his father’s administration.
据其工作人员称，小马科斯正在竞选，无法接受采访。但8月在电视上接受采访时，他表示不会为父亲的治国方式道歉。
“What am I to say sorry about?” he said during the interview, adding that under his father thousands of miles of roads were built, the country had one of the highest literacy rates in Asia, and it was an exporter of rice — the country’s staple food — not an importer, as it is now.
“我为什么要道歉？”他在采访中说，并接着表示在他父亲任内，菲律宾兴修了成千上万英里的公路，是亚洲识字率最高的国家之一，而且还是大米——该国的主食——的出口国，不像现在，需要进口大米。
But, he noted during a Feb. 17 news briefing, the issue of martial law and his father’s human rights record does not come up that often on the campaign trail.
但他在2月17日的新闻发布会上指出，竞选期间，有关戒严令和他父亲的人权记录问题并不常出现。
“People no longer ask about martial law,” he told reporters. “They are interested in the current problems of the country, such as jobs and traffic.”
“人们不再问和戒严令有关的问题，”他对记者说。“他们感兴趣的是我国当前存在的问题，如就业和交通。”
Michelle Pulumbarit, 31, a customer service operator who lives north of Manila, said Mr. Marcos was putting forward a proposal for the future that will bring back the best of the Marcos years. She is not concerned about martial law and human rights violations, she said.
31岁的米歇尔·普鲁姆巴里特(Michelle Pulumbarit)是一名客服人员，住在马尼拉北部。她说，小马克斯正在提出一份针对未来的提议，将会让老马克斯在位时的美好时代重现。她说她不关心戒严令和侵犯人权的行为。
“For me, those are things of the past,” she said. “That was a time when our economy was booming. Even Imelda did a lot of good things. She shared our culture with the world. I can forgive her for having so many shoes.”
“对我来说，那些都是过去时了，”她说。“那时候经济繁荣。即便是伊梅尔达也做了很多好事。她向世界宣传了我们的文化。我可以原谅她买了那么多鞋子。”
For others in the Philippines, the idea of a Marcos “golden age” is not supported by the facts. In her recent book, “Marcos Martial Law: Never Again,” the journalist Raissa Robles estimated that more than 3,200 people were murdered by the government during the Marcos years, and about 40,000 were tortured.
但对其他一些菲律宾人来说，马科斯统治时期属于“黄金时代”的说法与事实不符。在最近的著作《马科斯的戒严令：永远别再重演》(Marcos Martial Law: Never Again)中，记者雷萨·罗布尔斯(Raissa Robles)估计，在马科斯执政的那些年里，3200多人被政府杀害，约4万人遭到严刑拷打。
“It was a ‘golden age’ if you were politically aligned with Marcos,” said Mr. Casiple of the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform. “The cronies and the warlords of Marcos lived well and got the best of everything, but not the rest of society. Our school textbooks don’t reflect the agony of what was taking place during that time.”
“如果你是马科斯的政治盟友，那的确是一个‘黄金时代’，”政治与选举改革研究所的卡赛普尔说。“那时候，马科斯的朋党和军阀生活优越，用的什么都是最好的，但社会上的其他人不是这样。学校里的教科书并没有反映出那期间发生的事情给人们造成的痛苦。”
On Tuesday, a spokesman for President Benigno S. Aquino III told reporters that the country is more successful now than it was under Mr. Marcos. “It took us three decades to return our country’s honor,” he said. “We are now known as Asia’s rising star, an investment-grade economy and an example of good governance.”
周二，菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)的发言人桑尼·科洛马(Sonny Coloma)对记者表示，现在的菲律宾比马科斯执政时更成功。“我们用了30年时间恢复国家的荣誉，”他说。“我们现在被称作亚洲的新星，经济属于投资级，堪称良政典范。”
Lisandro Claudio, a professor at the Center for Southeast Asian Studies at Kyoto University, said the Marcos family has successfully changed the political narrative over the years, focusing on the glamour and high-profile achievements of the Marcos years.
日本京都大学(Kyoto University)东南亚研究中心(Center for Southeast Asian Studies)的教授利桑德罗·克劳迪奥(Lisandro Claudio)表示，马科斯家族这些年来成功地改变了政治叙事，强调马克斯执政时期的辉煌及卓越成就。
“They have poured a lot of money into this,” he said. “They have engineered this resurgence for decades and it taps into something genuine: that Filipinos don’t think they are respected in the world anymore. They feel they are globally insignificant.”
“他们为此投入大量资金，”他说。“过去数十年，他们一直在策划复兴，他们利用了一些真实的情绪：菲律宾人认为他们不再被世界尊重。他们感觉自己在国际上是无足轻重的。”
Marcos supporters note that most of the accusations against the Marcos family have never been proved in court. Ferdinand Marcos was never convicted of a crime, but in a class-action lawsuit after his death the United States District Court in Hawaii found his estate liable for torture, summary executions and disappearances.
马科斯的支持者指出，大多数针对马科斯家族的指控从未在法庭上获得证实。费迪南德·马科斯从未被判罪，但在他去世后，夏威夷联邦地区法院受理集体诉讼，并认为他的政治集团应该为酷刑、草率处决及失踪案例负责。
The Philippine government estimates that Marcos and his associates spirited away $5 billion of government funds by moving the money to overseas bank accounts, as well as buying lavish works of art and jewelry.
据菲律宾政府估计，马科斯及其同伙盗用政府50亿美元的资金，将这部分资金转移到海外银行账户或购买高价艺术品和珠宝。
Some fear that the election of Mr. Marcos could slow the recovery of that fortune; Mr. Casiple noted that the court system is overwhelmed and in some cases judges are not motivated to rule against associates of the Marcos family.
一些人担心，小马科斯当选会减缓收回财产的过程；卡赛普尔指出，法院系统不堪重负，在某些案件中，法官们不愿意做出不利于马科斯家族同伙的判决。
“Some of the people in the courts were appointed by Marcos during martial law,” he said. “This is a statement of the residual power of the Marcos family. All of the administrations that have followed Marcos have had a very difficult time prosecuting them in the courts.”
“法院系统的一些人员是由马科斯在实行军事管制期间任命的，”他说。“这是马科斯家族的残余势力。马科斯之后的各届政府都难以起诉他们。”
Apple Buiza, 26, an employee of a Manila aluminum siding company, said the fate of Imelda Marcos’s jewels was not a priority for her in the next election. Ms. Buiza spends hours each day battling traffic to get to work and is frustrated by the current government. She said she has heard stories of how orderly the country was during the Marcos years.
26岁的阿普尔·布伊萨(Apple Buiza)是马尼拉一家铝墙板公司的员工。她表示，在下一届选举中，伊梅尔达·马科斯的珠宝的命运不是她首先考虑的问题。布伊萨每天上班路上要耗费几个小时的时间，现任政府让她感到灰心。她表示，她听说马科斯执政期间这个国家井然有序。