SEVASTOPOL, Ukraine — Drawing on his experiences as a young artillery officer in imperial Russia’s military during the 1853-56 Crimean War, Leo Tolstoy described in “Sevastopol Sketches” how a wounded Russian soldier whose leg had been amputated above the knee coped with agonizing pain.
乌克兰塞瓦斯托波尔——1853到1856年克里米亚战争期间，列夫·托尔斯泰(Leo Tolstoy)曾是沙俄军队中一名年轻的炮兵军官，根据这段经历，他在《塞瓦斯托波尔纪事》(Sevastopol Sketches)中描写了一名膝盖以上截肢的俄罗斯伤兵如何缓解剧烈的伤痛。
“The chief thing, your honor, is not to think,” Tolstoy’s amputee remarked, “If you don’t think, it is nothing much. It mostly all comes from thinking.”
“关键是不要去想它，阁下，”托尔斯泰笔下这个被截肢的人说，“如果你不去想，它就不是什么大事了。伤痛几乎全都来自于你去想它。”
It is advice, however, that virtually nobody in Crimea,particularly not here in Sevastopol, shows any sign of heeding. With nearly every other street named after a Russian general or a gruesome battle, its lovely seafront promenade dominated by a “monument to sunken ships” and its central square named after the imperial admiral who commanded Russian forces against French, British and Turkish troops in the 19th century, Sevastopol constantly feeds thoughts of war and its agonies.
但是在克里米亚，特别在塞瓦斯托波尔，没有迹象显示人们真的听从了这个建议。塞瓦斯托波尔处处传递着战争及其伤痛的讯息：差不多每两条街道中，就有一条以俄国将军或惨烈战役的名字命名；美丽的海滨大道上矗立着一座显眼的“沉船纪念碑”；中心广场以一位沙俄海军上将的名字命名，他曾在19世纪指挥俄国军队抗击法国、英国和土耳其部队。
Bombarded with reminders of the Crimean War, which involved a yearlong siege of the city, and World War II, when the city doggedly resisted Nazi forces until finally falling in July 1942, Sevastopol has never stopped thinking about wartime losses — and has never been able to cope with the amputation carried out in 1954 by the Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev.
在克里米亚战争中，塞瓦斯托波尔曾被围城一年，在二战时期，它顽强抵抗纳粹军队直至1942年7月最终被攻陷，这座城池让人回想起两场战争的东西比比皆是，从没有停止去想战争的创伤——而且从来没能对苏联领导人尼基塔·赫鲁晓夫(Nikita Khrushchev)1954年的“截肢之举”释怀。
Wielding a pen instead of a knife, Khrushchev ordered Sevastopol and the rest of the Crimea transferred to the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. At the time, the operation caused little pain, as both Russia and Ukraine belonged to the Soviet Union, which chloroformed ethnic, linguistic and cultural divisions with repression.
赫鲁晓夫用的不是手术刀，而是大笔一挥，下令把塞瓦斯托波尔和克里米亚的其余部分划归给乌克兰苏维埃社会主义共和国。那时这一举措并没有引起多大问题，因为俄罗斯和乌克兰都属于苏联，它像麻醉剂一样抑制了种族、语言和文化差异之痛。
When Ukraine became a separate independent nation at the end of 1991, however, Sevastopol — the home of Russia’s Black Sea Fleet since the 18th century — began howling, culminating in the Crimean Parliament’s decision on Thursday to hold a referendum on March 16 on whether to break away from Ukraine and become formally part of Russia once again.
但是，当乌克兰1991年底成为一个独立国家时，塞瓦斯托波尔——俄罗斯黑海舰队自18世纪起就驻扎在这里——开始发出不平的咆哮，本周四，当克里米亚议会决定在3月16日对是否脱乌入俄进行公投时，这种咆哮达到了最强音。
Explaining the city’s agonies this week to a group of visitors, mostly Russians, to Sevastopol’s Crimean War museum, Irina Neverova, a guide, recounted how Britain, France, Turkey, Germany and others had over the centuries all tried and ultimately failed to loosen Russia’s grip.
本周，在塞瓦斯托波尔的克里米亚战争博物馆，导游伊琳娜·勒夫诺娃(Irina Neverova)向一群以俄罗斯人为主的游客解释了这座城市的惨烈历史，她讲述了几个世纪以来，英国、法国、土耳其、德国和其他国家如何试图从俄罗斯手中夺取塞瓦斯托波尔但却以失败告终。
“Every stone and every tree in Sevastopol is drenched in blood, with the bravery and courage of Russian soldiers,” said Ms. Neverova, who complained that school history text books written under instructions from Ukrainian officials in Kiev make scant mention of Sevastopol’s heroics and focus instead on the deeds of Ukrainian nationalist fighters in the west of Ukraine, whom many Russians view as traitors not heroes. “This is obviously Russia, not Ukraine,” Ms. Neverova said later in an interview.
“在塞瓦斯托波尔，每块石头，每棵树都浸透了鲜血，浸透了俄罗斯士兵的英勇无畏，”勒夫诺娃说。她抱怨由于基辅的乌克兰官员的指示，中学历史教科书对塞瓦斯托波尔的英雄事迹提及甚少，对乌克兰西部民族主义战士的事迹却大书特书，后者被很多俄罗斯族人视为叛徒而不是英雄。“这里显然是俄罗斯，不是乌克兰，”勒夫诺娃后来在接受采访时说。
For many years after the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union, the loudest voices calling for Crimea’s return to Russia were a motley collection of Afghan war veterans and fringe political groups. Wrapping themselves in the Russian and also the Soviet flag, they regularly called for a referendum on Crimea’s status but got nowhere, widely dismissed as dangerous crackpots nostalgic for the Soviet Union.
1991年苏联解体后的很多年里，呼吁克里米亚重返俄罗斯的人主要是阿富汗战争老兵以及一些边缘政治团体。他们时不时身裹俄罗斯和苏联的旗帜，要求对克里米亚的归属进行公投，但不仅未成气候，还被广泛斥为怀念苏联时期的危险怪胎。
But that all changed last month when protesters in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, drove President Viktor F. Yanukovych from power and Russian television, which is widely watched in Crimea, and local media controlled by pro-Russian businessmen began portraying Mr. Yanukovych’s ouster as a fascist coup.
但是，这一切都在上个月改变了。上个月在乌克兰首都基辅，抗议者将总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)赶下了台，而在克里米亚拥有众多观众的俄罗斯电视台以及亲俄商人控制的地方媒体，把亚努科维奇的下台描述为法西斯政变。
This turned what had been a marginal and seemingly doomed cause into a replay of heroic struggles in the past, allowing Sevastopol’s enemies of Ukrainian statehood to cast themselves as heirs to their city’s wartime resistance to Hitler’s invading armies.
这让一个看上去注定要失败的边缘运动，变成了往日英勇战斗的重演，让反对乌克兰统治的塞瓦斯托波尔市民认为，自己应当继承这座城市的先辈们抗击希特勒侵略的事业。
Thousands of Sevastopol residents gathered outside the office of the Kiev-appointed mayor, located in the shadow of a gargantuan World War II monument on the edge of Nakhimov Square, named after Crimean War hero Pavel Nakhimov, and forced him to resign in favor of Alexei Chaly, a Russian nationalist and businessman known for his sponsorship of war memorials.
数以千计的塞瓦斯托波尔居民聚集在市长办公楼下，逼迫基辅任命的市长辞职，让阿列克谢·查利(Alexei Chaly)上台，后者是俄罗斯民族主义者兼商人，以捐资修建战争纪念碑闻名。在以克里米亚战争英雄帕维尔·纳希莫夫(Pavel Nakhimov)命名的纳希莫夫广场边缘，矗立着一座巨大的二战纪念碑，市长办公楼就坐落在它的阴影处。
Across the city rose a rallying cry resurrected from past sieges by foreign powers: “Stand Firm, Sevastopol.” The slogan now decorates a stage set up in the central square for pro-Russian rallies and concerts featuring the Black Sea Fleet choir and Cossack dancers.
外国入侵者围城时期用来凝聚士气的标语，又在这座城市的各处重现：“坚定不移，塞瓦斯托波尔。”中央广场搭建了一个舞台，用来举办亲俄集会以及黑海舰队合唱团和哥萨克舞者参演的音乐会，台上就装饰着这个标语。
While President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia insisted this week that the unidentified gunmen who now control Crimea have nothing to do with the Kremlin and are local self-defense volunteers who bought their uniforms off the shelf, pro-Russian residents in Sevastopol celebrate their arrival as evidence that Moscow has mobilized to force Crimea’s separation from Ukraine. “Let’s continue what we started. We have Russia behind us,” reads a banner hoisted outside the mayor’s office.
虽然俄罗斯总统普京本周坚称，现在控制克里米亚的身份不明的持枪者与克里姆林宫无关，是自行去商店购买制服的地方自卫志愿者，但塞瓦斯托波尔的亲俄居民庆祝他们的到来，视之为莫斯科已经行动起来，要力促克里米亚脱离乌克兰的证据。“让我们继续前进。我们背后有俄罗斯，”市长办公楼外悬挂的一条横幅写着。
Russia’s takeover of Crimea is already so complete that commercial flights to Kiev from the region’s main airport, located outside Simferopol, the regional capital 50 miles from Sevastopol, now leave from the international terminal instead of the domestic one as they did until last week. The shift suggests that Kiev and the rest of Ukraine are now classified as foreign territory.
俄罗斯对克里米亚的接管已经相当彻底，从该地区主要机场飞往基辅的商业航班现在已经从国际航站楼出发，而不是上周之前那样从国内航站楼出发了。这种转变表明，基辅和乌克兰其他地区现已被他们列为外国领土。这个机场在该地区首府辛菲罗波尔市外，而塞瓦斯托波尔和辛菲罗波尔相距50英里。
Russian soldiers patrol the airport parking lot and, although still without markings on their uniforms, have dropped all pretense that they are not Russian. Asked where he was from, a masked soldier at the airport said he was with the Russian infantry and had been sent to Crimea a week ago on a mission to protect the region “against the enemy, Ukraine.”
俄罗斯士兵在机场的停车场巡逻，他们的制服上仍然没有标志，但已经不再隐藏他们的俄罗斯人身份。当被问及来自哪里时，机场一名蒙着面的士兵回答说，他来自俄罗斯步兵部队，一周前被派到克里米亚，执行一项保护该地区不受“敌国乌克兰”侵扰的任务。