WASHINGTON — While the world has been fixated on the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, the Korean carrier involved in the crash of a different Boeing 777, the Asiana flight into San Francisco last July, raised design issues on Monday that put another question mark over the model of jetliner.
华盛顿——就在全世界关注马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班失踪的谜团之时，韩国的韩亚航空(Asiana)本周一提出了一个关于飞机设计的问题，让该型号的客机遭遇了新的质疑。去年7月，韩亚航空飞往旧金山的一架波音(Boeing) 777客机发生了坠毁。
The circumstances of the crashes could not have been more different. Asiana’s crash, into the sea wall in front of a runway at San Francisco International Airport, was captured on video, with debris spread over a few hundred feet of runway. Three people died and scores were wounded, but most people walked away. In contrast, everyone on the Malaysia plane is presumed lost, and the cause is, for now, a mystery.
那次坠机的情形截然不同。监控录像捕捉到了韩亚客机坠机时的情形，当时飞机在旧金山国际机场(San Francisco International Airport)撞上了跑道前的防波堤，碎片散落在跑道上，绵延了数百英尺。事故中有三人身亡，还有数十人受伤，不过多数人都平安脱身。相较之下，人们推定马航客机上无人生还，而且其失事原因现在还是个谜。
In San Francisco, the prime cause was quickly clear; even Asiana faulted its crew for failing to notice that the airplane was flying far too slowly to stay in the air. But it is also blaming “inconsistencies in the aircraft’s automation logic.”
旧金山空难的主因迅速得到澄清；即使是韩亚航空公司也认定，那次空难的原因是机组人员没能注意到飞机飞得太慢了，从而导致飞机无法停留在空中。不过，韩亚航空也批评“飞机自动驾功能的操作逻辑前后矛盾”。
The carrier said Monday in a filing with the National Transportation Safety Board that bad software design “led to the unexpected disabling of airspeed protection without adequate warning to the flight crew,” and that a system to warn the crew of low airspeed did not sound soon enough. The airline also said that the approach ordered by air traffic controllers “led to an excessive pilot workload during the final approach.”
韩亚航空公司在周一向美国国家运输安全委员会（National Transportation Safety Board，简称NTSB）提交的文件中表示，糟糕的软件设计“导致航速保护装置出人意料地停止了运转，而且未向机组人员发出充分的警告”，向机组人员警告飞机航速过慢的系统也没有及时发出警告音。韩亚航空还表示，空管人员指示的进近路线“致使飞行员在最终进近期间，工作量过大”。
Boeing has focused on the crew’s failure to maintain proper airspeed, which is expected to be listed by the safety board as the probable cause of the crash. Asiana’s filing is an effort by the airline to have the plane’s design characteristics listed among the contributing factors. The board’s conclusions are not admissible in court, but its ranking of factors often influences how a carrier’s insurance company and the plane’s builder apportion the damage settlements or court judgments.
波音公司把调查重点放在机组人员未能维持适当的航速上，预计NTSB会把这一点列为导致事故的可能原因。韩亚航空之所以提交这些文件，是为了让调查方把飞机设计特性列为事故发生的诱因之一。法院不会把NTSB的结论采信为证据，不过NTSB对事故原因的排序，往往会影响航空公司投保的保险公司和飞机制造商之间，如何分担和解费用或法庭判决的赔偿金。
In the Asiana crash, the crew believed that an auto-throttle would manipulate the engines to keep the plane’s airspeed in the range needed for a safe landing, somewhat like the way the cruise control in a car will adjust the throttle to keep the speed constant. It later became obvious that because of a quirk in two tightly linked systems, the autopilot and the auto-throttle, and because the crew had manually adjusted the throttles at one point, the auto-throttle had gone into sleep mode.
在韩亚坠毁事故中，机组人员以为，自动油门能够操纵引擎，把航速控制在飞机安全着陆所需的安全范围内，这有点儿像车上的自动巡航系统，它能调节油门以维持车速恒定。后来的情况清晰地显示出，由于自动驾驶和自动油门这两套紧密联系的系统之间出现了一个小差池，再加上机组人员曾在某一时刻手动调整油门，从而导致自动油门进入了睡眠模式。
This characteristic is well known, and occurs when the autopilot is in a mode called flight level change, which is abbreviated on the relevant cockpit button as “FLCH.” The abbreviation has given rise to a nickname the pilots use for the characteristic, “the flitch trap.” After the crash, safety board investigators were told by the specialists who train Asiana pilots that not only were the three men in the cockpit warned about the flitch trap, but they had also been told that they could expect it while landing in San Francisco because the typical approach at the airport required a fast descent and extensive use of the autopilot in different modes.
这是一种众所周知的特性，当自动驾驶系统处在称为“飞行高度层改变”的模式时，就会发生这种情况，在驾驶舱的对应按钮上，这个模式被缩写为“FLCH”，这个缩写促使飞行员们给这一特性起了一个外号，叫“高度层陷阱”(the flitch trap)。坠机事件发生后，为韩亚航空培训飞行员的专家告诉NTSB的调查人员，飞行员座舱里的三人不仅被提醒要注意“高度层陷阱”，而且还被告知在旧金山降落时可能会遇到这种情况，因为在那里降落时，通常要求飞机快速下降，并且要在不同模式下大量使用自动驾驶。
But Thomas Haueter, a former director of the office of aviation safety at the board and now a consultant to the airline, said the flitch trap was “a bit of a setup for the unwary.”
但NTSB航空安全办公室前主任、韩亚航空现任顾问托马斯·霍伊特(Thomas Haueter)表示，高度层陷阱“有点像是粗心的人才会遇到的状况”。
If the crew had turned off the auto-throttle, he said, a separate system would have kicked in to keep the engines running hard enough to prevent aerodynamic stall. But with the auto-throttle in sleep mode, “there’s no protection at all, you’ve got nothing,” Mr. Haueter said.
他说，如果机组成员关闭了自动油门，另外一个系统就会开启，以确保引擎的运转足以防止飞机失速。但霍伊特表示，如果自动油门处于睡眠模式，“就彻底没有保护了，什么都没有。”
The Asiana pilots union, in a separate submission to the safety board, said pilots were not trained on this characteristic of the 777.
韩亚航空的飞行员工会在单独提交给NTSB的一份报告中称，飞行员们没有接受过有关777客机这一特点的培训。
The airline’s submission notes that in 2010, when another Boeing plane with a similar auto-throttle, the 787, was being certified by the Federal Aviation Administration, the F.A.A. raised concerns about the way the throttles went into sleep mode. But Boeing declined to make a change and agreed with the F.A.A. to put a warning into the pilot manuals.
韩亚航空提交的文件写道，2010年，当波音另一款配有相似自动油门的飞机787在接受联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）认证时，FAA对自动油门进入睡眠模式的方式表达了担忧。但波音不愿更改，而是与FAA取得共识，在飞行员手册中加入了相应的警告。
After the crash, when test pilots from the F.A.A. and the airline tried to fly the approach that air traffic controllers had given the Asiana flight, they had severe difficulties doing so while following other rules, according to papers filed with the board.
提交给NTSB的文件显示，在坠毁发生后，来自FAA和韩亚航空的测试飞行员，试图按照空管人员向韩亚坠毁航班发出的指示降落，但由于既要遵循指示又要遵守其他规则，他们遇到了严重的困难。
The airline’s submission also acknowledges other errors by the crew. For example, Asiana, like all big carriers, requires that the pilots be on a “stabilized approach,” lined up horizontally and vertically, at the proper speed with the flaps extended to the proper degree. If the crew is still making adjustments below a certain altitude, the pilot is supposed to break off the approach and go around for another try. In this case, one of the pilots called out that the plane was too low.
韩亚航空提交的报告也承认机组人员还犯了其他错误。比如，像所有大型航空公司一样，韩亚航空要求飞行员“稳定进近”，即水平方向和垂直方向都要对准，速度要适当，襟翼展开的角度要适当。如果飞机降落到一定高度以下，机组成员依然在进行调整，那么飞行员就应该停止降落，复飞并再次尝试进近。在这次事故中，韩亚航班上的一名飞行员曾喊道，飞机高度太低了。
Boeing’s submission said that “all airplane systems were functioning as expected prior to impact and did not contribute to the accident.” It added that the crew had cues that it should have stopped the approach because of the plane’s speed and because the thrust setting was incorrect.
波音提交的报告称，“撞击发生前，机上所有系统都在如常运转，并非事故发生的诱因。”该报告补充说，机组成员曾收到应该停止进近的提示，因为飞机的航速和推力设置都不正确。
The Asiana crash was the first fatal airline accident in the United States since February 2009. The safety board is still months away from completing its final report.
韩亚航空的飞机坠毁，是美国自2009年2月以来发生的首次致人死亡的空难事故。NTSB仍需数月才能完成最终的报告。