NEXT time you’re on a plane at takeoff or landing, watch the flight attendant in the jump seat, seemingly lost in thought. Is she idly wondering where she parked her the car at the airport or what’s for dinner?
下次当你乘坐的飞机正在起飞或降落时，观察一下可折式座椅上那位好像陷入了沉思的空乘人员。她是在无所事事地思索自己把车停在机场的哪个地方了，或是晚饭吃什么吗？
Not likely, said Leslie Mayo, a flight attendant for over 26 years. Instead, that flight attendant is probably mentally running through “the 30-second review that’s been drilled into our heads,” she said.
有超过26年从业经验的空乘莱斯莉·梅奥(Leslie Mayo)说，不太可能。她说，相反，那名空乘可能正在心里快速进行“已深入我们脑海的30秒检查”。
“If you see some of us just sitting there looking out into space, we’re probably actually reviewing those safety procedures. You’re assessing the cabin. You’re thinking, if there’s an evacuation, who are my assistants going to be? Who’s going to be the most helpful and calm in a situation where you really need help from passengers?” said Ms. Mayo, who is also a spokeswoman for the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, which represents more than 16,000 American Airlines flight attendants.
“如果你看到我们中的一些人只是坐在那里，望向窗外，我们实际上可能正在回顾那些安全程序。我们会评估客舱，会考虑：如果要进行疏散，谁会成为我的帮手？在真的需要乘客提供帮助的情况下，谁会是最有帮助的、最镇静的那个？”梅奥说。她同时也是美国职业空乘人员协会(Association of Professional Flight Attendants)的发言人，该协会代表着美国航空公司(American Airlines)的1.6万多名空乘人员。
As investigators work to determine the cause (or, more likely, causes) of the crash of Asiana Flight 214 that killed two and injured 180 at San Francisco International Airport on Saturday, people with expertise in aviation safety, or with personal experience in aviation disasters, have been shaking their heads in wonder.
周六，韩亚航空(Asiana Airlines)214航班在旧金山国际机场(San Francisco International Airport)坠毁，造成两人死亡、180人受伤。当调查人员展开调查以确定事故原因（或者，更可能是多个原因），具有航空安全方面专业知识，或是亲身经历过空难的人一直在惊叹地摇头。
How could so many have evacuated that airplane alive? And what can be learned about aviation safety from this incident? Asiana flight attendants have won wide praise for their performance. Ms. Mayo and others are amazed that it took only about 90 seconds to get everyone off that plane, which was carrying 291 passengers and 16 crew.
这么多人是如何活着撤离飞机的？从这次事故中能学到什么航空安全知识？韩亚航空空乘人员的表现赢得了广泛赞誉。梅奥和其他人都很惊讶，所有人离开飞机只用了大约90秒，当时飞机上共有291名乘客和16名机组成员。
The evacuation was also aided by some passengers who by and large remained calm on an airplane that was on fire, filled with smoke, its tail section broken off, with several of its emergency evacuation slides malfunctioning.
疏散工作也得到了一些乘客的协助，他们总的来说保持镇静，当时，飞机起火、浓烟滚滚，尾翼脱落，几个应急疏散滑梯出现故障。
For passengers, some basic lessons were firmly reinforced. These include following crew members’ instructions in an emergency and the overall importance of what the safety experts call situational awareness. Routinely, on any flight, we should know exactly where those exit doors are that the flight attendants keep trying to point out during the usually ignored safety demonstrations. We should be asking ourselves, if an emergency occurred what would I do? If I’m in or near an exit row, can I open that door?
对乘客而言，此次事故有力地强调了一些基本教训。其中包括，发生紧急情况时听从机组人员的指挥，以及安全专家所说的状况感知的重要性。就常规而言，在任何航班上，我们都应该明确地知道，安全出口在哪里。在我们通常会忽视的安全演示过程中，空乘人员都会一直向我们指出安全出口的位置。我们应该问自己，如果发生紧急情况，我们要怎么做？如果我坐在紧急出口处，或是它的旁边，我能把门打开吗？
Other reinforced lessons were the importance of cabin-design safety, an initiative that has helped to sharply reduce accident casualties.
其他突显的教训是客舱安全设计的重要性，安全设计可以显著减少事故中的伤亡人数。
“It’s a testament to some of the safety features that have been designed into new airplanes that so many people were able to walk away on Saturday,” said Matt Ziemkiewicz, president of the National Air Disaster Alliance Foundation.
“周六，那么多人能走出飞机这一点，就验证了新飞机中应用的一些安全功能，”全国空难联盟基金会(National Air Disaster Alliance Foundation)主席马特·齐姆基维克茨(Matt Ziemkiewicz)说。
Still, as Mr. Ziemkiewicz and others pointed out, new questions are arising about some design features on the wide-body Boeing 777 that crashed on Saturday.
然而，正如齐姆基维克茨和其他人所指出的那样，针对周六坠毁的宽体波音777飞机的一些设计特点，也出现了新的质疑。
Among the things that the National Transportation Safety Board will be looking closely at is whether some coach-cabin seats came off their tracks or sustained unacceptable damage on impact, and why two of the inflatable emergency slides apparently opened inside the cabin, pinning several people before crew members found an ax to deflate the slides.
美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)将会密切关注多个问题，比如一些经济舱座位是否脱离了整体构架，或是在受到冲击时遭到难以承受的破坏，为什么有两个应急充气滑梯显然是在客舱内打开了，导致一些人在机组人员找到斧头给滑梯放气前被困。
“There is something to be learned from every crash,” said Mr. Ziemkiewicz, whose sister Jill was a flight attendant who died in the crash of TWA Flight 800 in 1996.
齐姆基维克茨说，“每次坠机事故都会给我们一些教训。”他的姐姐吉尔(Jill)生前是一名空乘人员，她在1996年环球航空(TWA)800航班坠毁事故中遇难。
So how about those images of passengers on the Asiana plane who slid to safety toting their carry-on bags and other possessions — against all standard protocols?
那怎么看待韩亚航空飞机上那些违反所有标准协议，带着随身行李和其他财物通过应急滑梯求生的乘客呢？
“I was surprised, and maybe a bit appalled, by the photos and footage of people leaving the plane with their carry-ons,” said Patrick Smith, an airline pilot who flies internationally and blogs at Askthepilot.com. “This is something we’ve seen in several emergency evacuations in recent years.
“看到人们带着随身行李离开飞机的照片和录像，我感到非常吃惊，或许有点恐惧，”飞国际航线的航空公司飞行员帕特里克·史密斯(Patrick Smith)说，“这是我们近年在几次应急疏散中看到的现象。”史密斯也在Askthepilot.com网站写博客。
“But lugging a carry-on bag down the aisle during an emergency evacuation, when seconds can mean the difference between life and death, is reckless, endangering not just your own life, but the lives of people behind you. Those escape slides are much steeper and higher off the ground than it looks on television. They are designed to get a planeload of people out of, and away from, the aircraft as quickly as possible — without their belongings.”
“但在紧急疏散中将随身行李拖出通道是一种不顾后果的行为，不仅危及你自己的生命，还危及你身后的乘客的生命，此时，每一秒都意味着生死之差。这些逃生滑梯比从电视上看到的要陡得多，离地面的距离也高得多。设置逃生滑梯的目的是帮助机上人员在不携带行李的情况下尽快从飞机中撤出并远离飞机。”
Ms. Mayo had the same reaction at seeing so many bags piled up in San Francisco. “There were two boxes of duty-free alcohol next to two passengers as they were staring at the wreckage,” she said.
梅奥看到这么多行李堆积在旧金山机场时，也有同样的反应。她说，“当两名乘客注视着飞机残骸时，身边有两箱免税酒。”
“I was looking at that and going, how in the world did they get that past a flight attendant? I’ll tell you, nobody would have got that past me.”
“我当时边走边看着那些东西，空乘人员怎么会让他们带着那些东西跑出来的？我会告诉你，我不会让任何人带着那个逃生的。”
The main lesson I would take away from the Asiana crash is this: Flight attendants have a lot of jobs, some of them irksome, but the main job is safety. Attention must be paid.
我从韩亚航空坠机事故中得到的主要教训是：空乘有很大的责任，其中一些令人厌烦，但主要是确保安全。必须予以重视。
Consider Lee Yoon-hye, the lead flight attendant on Asiana Flight 214. Ms. Lee, who had a broken tailbone, fought flames and helped usher people to the functioning emergency slides. She watched another flight attendant piggyback a young child through the smoke. “I was only thinking about rescuing the next passenger,” she said at a news conference on Sunday.
看看韩亚航空214航班的乘务长李延慧（Lee Yoon-hye，音译）吧。尾椎骨骨折的李延慧拼命扑火，引导人们走去可用的紧急滑梯。她看着另一名空乘背着一名幼儿穿过浓烟。她在周日的新闻发布会上说，“我当时只想着救下一名乘客。”
She was the last person to leave the wreckage of the plane. And that’s the way it works, Ms. Mayo said.
李延慧是最后一名离开飞机残骸的人。梅奥表示，就应该这样。
“Have you ever heard of an accident where the flight attendants jumped out first?” she asked.
她问道，“你以前听过发生事故后，空乘首先跳出飞机的例子吗？”