The nearly 11-hour trip across the Pacific had gone smoothly as Asiana Flight 214 approached San Francisco International Airport — an uneventful flight for the 291 passengers, including dozens of Chinese teenagers who were arriving for a summer camp to study English and to tour American colleges.
在太平洋上空飞行近11个小时之后，韩亚航空214航班顺利靠近旧金山国际机场(San Francisco International Airport)。机上有291名乘客，包括几十名来美国参加英语夏令营并参观大学的中国青少年。乘客们都觉得，此次飞行一切正常。
But from seat 30K, Benjamin Levy knew something was wrong. Outside his window, as the plane approached the airport where Mr. Levy, a frequent traveler, knew there should have been tarmac, there was instead a terrifying sight: the waters of San Francisco Bay.
但是，坐在30K座位的本杰明·利维(Benjamin Levy)察觉到了异常的情况。飞机靠近了这个他经常出入的机场，窗外却不是他熟知的柏油碎石跑道，而是令人恐惧的旧金山湾水面。
“The pilot put the gas full steam and we tipped back up. He went full throttle to regain a bit of altitude,” Mr. Levy said, speaking from his home on Sunday, a day after he survived the crash landing that killed two 16-year-old girls among the group of Chinese students and injured 180 of the nearly 300 passengers arriving from South Korea.
周六，从韩国出发的该航班撞毁，中国学生当中的两个女孩死亡，近300名乘客中有180人受伤。周日，侥幸生还的利维在家里说，“飞行员开足马力，我们从水面上跃了起来。他继续开足马力，让飞机重新升到了一定的高度。”
“We were so close to the water, the water got sprayed up,” Mr. Levy said. “There were walls of water beside the window — before we started hitting earth.”
他说，“我们太靠近水面，水都溅了起来。在我们撞上地面之前，窗外都是涌起的水墙。”
When the screaming ceased inside the battered Boeing 777, the plane rested on its belly, with its tail and engines sheared by the crash.
这架波音777客机里的尖叫停止时，机腹着陆，机尾和引擎都撞掉了。
The head of the National Transportation Safety Board said Sunday that the pilots came in too slow, took too long to realize it and tried to abort the landing seconds before the crash. Hours later, the South Korean Transport Ministry said the most junior pilot, Lee Kang-guk, who had only 43 hours of experience flying a 777, was at the controls at the time of the accident.
周日，美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)负责人称，飞行员反应太慢，用了很长时间才意识到发生了什么事情，临到撞毁几秒钟之前才试图放弃着陆。几小时后，韩国交通部(South Korean Transport Ministry)称，事故发生时，驾驶飞机的是仅有43小时777驾驶经验的初级飞行员李强国（Lee Kang-guk，音译）。
“For now, this itself should not be cited as if it were the cause of the accident,” Chang Man-hee, a senior aviation policy official at the ministry, said by telephone. “Mr. Lee himself was a veteran pilot going through what every pilot has to when switching to a new type of plane.”
该部高级航空政策官员张曼熙（Chang Man-hee，音译）在电话中说，“就现在而言，还不能判断事故的原因是不是飞行员本身。李强国是一名资深飞行员，每一个转驾新机型的飞行员都会有他这样的经历。”
In a dramatic moment-by-moment account, the board’s chairwoman, Deborah A. P. Hersman, suggested that crew members had little inkling of the impending crash until about seven seconds before impact when one is heard on a cockpit recorder calling for an increase in speed. The call came too late. Three seconds later, an alarm sounded a warning that the plane was about to stall, Ms. Hersman said. One-and-a-half seconds before impact, the pilots throttled the engines in an attempt to avert a crash, but before the plane could gain altitude it hit the runway, snapping off its tail section, before skidding to a stop and catching fire.
安全委员会女主席德博拉·A·P·赫斯曼(Deborah  A. P. Hersman)在一份逐刻分析当时情况的戏剧性文件中表示，航班人员没有意识到即将发生撞机，直到撞机前七秒，才听到机舱录音机里有人叫喊加速。但是为时已晚。赫斯曼说，三秒钟后，警报响起，预示该飞机即将失速。撞机前1.5秒，飞行员开足引擎，试图避免撞机，然而，飞机没来得及升高就撞到了跑道上，撞断了机尾，又在滑行一段之后停止，而且着了火。
Ms. Hersman’s comments at a news briefing were based on preliminary data provided by the Boeing 777’s cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder. Other data from a private firm, FlightAware, indicated that as the plane lost forward speed, it descended much faster than normal.
赫斯曼在新闻发布会上的评论，基于这架波音777的机舱内的录音机及飞行数据记录器。来自私营企业航班跟踪公司(FlightAware)的数据则显示，当飞机失去前进速度时，降落的速度远高于正常速度。
She stressed that investigators could not yet draw any conclusions about the cause of the crash, which left two people dead and over 180 injured. But she did not indicate any sign of a mechanical malfunction and focused almost exclusively on the actions of the pilots as they prepared for landing.
她强调说，关于撞击原因，调查人员现在还得不出任何结论。此次事故导致两人死亡，逾180人受伤。但是她没有暗示任何机械故障，言论几乎都与飞行员准备着陆时的行动有关。
“Everything is on the table right now,” she said. “It is too early to rule anything out.”
她说，“所有的因素都摆在了桌面上，现在排除任何因素都还为时过早。”
Saturday was clear, with light winds, no wind shear and visibility of up to ten miles, Ms. Hersman said. Air traffic controllers had cleared the Asiana flight for a visual approach meaning no guiding instruments were needed to land the plane.
赫斯曼说，周六是晴天，风力微弱，不存在风切变，能见度也达到了十英里。空中交通管制者为该韩亚航空航班靠视觉着陆扫清了障碍，意味着飞机不需要任何引导性设备就可以着陆。
What happened to the passengers depended in part on where they were sitting.
乘客的命运部分取决于他们的座位。
Near the front of the plane, including the first class cabin, some passengers left the plane clutching their carry on luggage. In the center of the plane where Mr. Levy sat there was no inflatable chute, as there were at other exits. At the very rear of the plane, which bore the worst of the crash damage, overhead compartments had opened upon impact, raining luggage onto the seated passengers. Mr. Levy said there was a woman with her leg crushed between two seats, which had become uprooted. Mr. Levy and others worked to free her.
在靠近飞机机头的部分，包括头等舱，一些乘客是拉着行李走下飞机的。在利维所在的飞机中段，没有其他出口都有的那种充气滑梯。飞机的机尾部分受损最严重，头顶的行李舱在撞机过程中开启，行李砸向坐着的乘客们。利维说，有位女士一条腿夹在两把翻了的椅子中间。利维和其他人帮着她把腿抽了出来。
Another woman near her was unconscious. “She wouldn’t move. There were two other guys, we couldn’t pick her up,” Mr. Levy said.
靠近她的另一位女士失去了知觉。利维说，“她一动不动。当时那儿还有另外两个男人，我们没法把她扶起来。”
Suddenly, through the hole in the tail of the plane, a firefighter charged in, rushing Mr. Levy and the remaining passengers out as smoke billowed. The jetliner was on fire.
突然间，一名消防队员从机尾的大洞冲了进来，在浓烟滚滚中把利维和其他乘客推下飞机。飞机着火了。
On Sunday, hospital medical officials said that nearly all of the most grievously injured passengers were in the rear of the plane, including six people in critical condition with spinal injuries, paralysis and head injuries, and a few with what was described as ”road rash” as if they had been dragged.
周日，医院的医务人员称，大多数重伤乘客都来自飞机尾部，包括六名脊椎受损、麻痹和头部受伤的危重伤者，还有一些被描述为“皮肉严重擦伤”，就好像曾经被拽着在地上拖一样。
It was not clear where the two girls who died were seated on the plane; both bodies were found on the tarmac. One of the bodies, found to the left side of the plane off the runway, may have been run over by a fire truck or other emergency vehicle in addition to her injuries from the crash, Robert J. Foucrault, the San Mateo County Coroner, said Sunday.
尚不清楚死亡的两名女孩坐在飞机上的哪个地方；两人的尸体都是在停机坪上找到的。圣马特奥验尸官罗伯特·J·富克罗(Robert J. Foucrault)周日称，其中一具尸体是在飞机左侧的跑道之外找到的，除了坠机造成的伤痕之外，她可能曾被一辆消防车或其他紧急车辆轧过。
Mr. Foucrault said his examination was not complete, so he could not confirm that was the case.
富克罗说，验尸工作尚未完成，因此他不能确定这一情况。
Jang Hyung Lee, 32, was seated with his wife and their 15-month-old son in the first row in economy class. He said he heard a distant thump, then a few seconds later, a louder thump, and then saw the flames of an engine on fire to the right.
32岁的李章亨（Jang Hyung Lee，音译）与妻子和15个月大的儿子一起坐在经济舱的第一排。他说他听到了远处的撞击声，几秒之后又有一记更响亮的撞击声，随后就看到了右侧着火引擎的火焰。
He said he was lucky to be sitting toward the front of the aircraft. Doors opened. He lined up to slide down the chute, clutching his baby in a strap-on carrier on his chest. His wife grabbed the diaper bag.
他说他很幸运，坐在了飞机的前部。舱门打开。他排着队滑下滑槽，抓着他胸前捆绑式襁褓中的孩子。他的妻子则抓着尿布包。
The evacuation, at least in the front of the plane where the Lee family sat, was calm and orderly.
疏散过程平静而有秩序，至少在李章亨一家所在的飞机前部是如此。
“It wasn’t really chaos. People actually took their hand carriers,” Mr. Lee said. “People in front they were pretty much okay. We could walk out by ourselves.”
“局面并不是特别混乱。实际上，人们都拿着自己的手提行李，”李章亨说，“坐在前排的人状况都还不错。我们可以自己走出来。”
His in-laws in business class and lugger fell from the overhead above their seats. His mother- in-law somehow knocked out a front tooth and his father-in-law is suffering from back pain, but they both made it safely down another chute to waiting paramedics.
他那些姻亲坐在商务舱里，行李从他们的座位顶上掉了下来。他的岳母不知何故磕掉了一颗门牙，他的岳父则背部受伤，但他们都安全地从另一条滑槽离开了飞机，到达了等在那里的医护人员身边。
Xu Da, the production manager at Taobao, the Chinese online shopping Web site, wrote on Sina Weibo, a Chinese blogging site, that he smelled “ the smoke, and saw the flames.”
淘宝网(Taobao)产品事业部总经理徐达在新浪微博上写道，他“闻到焦味，也看到了火光”。
Nevertheless, like many other passengers, he wrote that he grabbed his carry-on bags before leaving the plane.
不过，他写道，就像其他许多乘客一样，他在离开飞机之前抓住了他的随身行李。
“I grabbed my bags as soon as it stopped,” he said of the plane. “My wife was very calm — she even picked up the scattered stuff on the ground,” he wrote, adding that the couple took their bags and child as they turned toward the rear. “There was a huge hole, quite round, so we rushed out there.”
“好在飞机很快停下……于是赶紧起来拿行李，”他写道，“老婆很镇静，还把零散的东西收拾起来装起来。”他接着写道，他和妻子带着行李和孩子来到飞机后部。“有一个大洞门，还挺圆，（我们就）立即冲出去。”
Strapped into his exit row midway in the plane, Mr. Levy thought his ribs had been broken. Nonetheless, he stood up inside the shattered aircraft, pried open the emergency door, and began to shout out directions.
困在飞机中段出口那排座位上的时候，利维觉得自己的肋骨断了。尽管如此，他还是在破碎的机舱中站了起来，撬开了应急门，开始大声宣读使用说明。
“We were left on our own, there was no message from the pilot, from the crew, there was no one. We had to help each other out,” Mr. Levy said, describing how he and others stayed in the plane as they hustled other passengers out, shouting for people to keep calm, while 30 to 40 people exited the door beside him.
“没人管我们，我们只能靠自己，没有来自飞行员的讯息，没有机组成员，没有任何人。我们只能互相帮助离开这里，”利维说。他描述了他和其他一些人如何留在飞机上敦促其他乘客离开飞机，大声要求人们保持冷静，有30到40人从他身边的舱门离开了飞机。
The flight had a crew of 16, including four pilots who switched off during the flight in two-man rotations. Korean officials said the captain at the time of the landing was Lee Jeong-min, who had more than 12,000 hours of overall flight experience and 3,220 hours in Boeing 777s. But the co-pilot, Lee Kang-guk, 46, was at the controls. He had almost 10,000 total flying hours, with just 43 in 777s, Korean officials said.
该航班有16名机组成员，包括4名飞行员，他们在飞行期间两人一组倒班。韩国官员称，降落时担任机长的是李真珉（Lee Jeong-min，音译），他总共有超过1.2万小时的飞行经验，驾驶波音777飞机的时间也有3220小时。不过，当时驾驶飞机的是46岁的副驾驶员李强国。韩国官员称，他总共拥有近1万小时的飞行经验，驾驶777的时间却仅有43小时。
While the pilot should have recognized the abnormally strong descent, Ms. Hersman also said Sunday that construction at the airport had temporarily shut down an electronic system — called a glide slope indicator — that helps guide pilots to the runway.
周日，赫斯曼还说，一方面，飞行员应当能意识到下降速度快得不正常，另一方面，因为机场建设的缘故，名为滑翔斜率指示的电子系统处于临时关闭状态，这种系统可以帮助飞行员找到跑道的。
“Pilots have available to them a number of options for how to get the plane in on the right speed, on the right approach, on the right path,” Ms. Hersman said.
“飞行员拥有许多选择，都可以把飞机保持正确的速度、正确的降落方法和正确的降落路径，”赫斯曼说。
Another tool, known as a localizer, which allows planes to line up along the center of the runway, was operating, as were the airport’s red and white lights that visually guide pilots to the runway.
名为定位器的设备当时运转正常，它能让飞机保持在跑道中心，同样运转正常的还有帮助飞行员靠视觉找到跑道的红白灯光。
Pilots can also use onboard GPS-based equipment to guide their approach to the runway.
飞行员还可以使用机载GPS系统来引导自己找到跑道。
Given that the weather was ideal and the guide lights were on, making a visual landing should not have been difficult for most commercial pilots, aviation experts said.
航空专家称，考虑到天气很理想，导航灯也亮着，对大多数商业飞行员来说，靠视觉进行着陆应该不难。