The chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board said Sunday that pilots of the Asiana Airlines jetliner that crashed a day earlier in San Francisco tried to abort the landing just seconds before the crash. The plane was traveling well below the speed needed to maintain a stable angle of approach and was descending too fast, she said.
美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)主席在周日称，一天前，韩亚航空那架飞机在旧金山坠落时，飞行员曾在坠落几秒钟前试图中止着陆。她说，飞机的飞行速度远低于可以保持稳定下降角度的值，而且降得太快。
At a briefing Sunday, the safety board chairwoman, Deborah Hersman, focused mainly on whether the pilots erred while making a series of calculations needed to land. She also said the board was investigating whether construction at the airport — which had temporarily shut down an electronic system that helps guide pilots to the proper landing slope — might have played a role in the crash.
在周日的一次新闻发布会上，安全委员会主席德博拉·赫斯曼(Deborah Hersman)主要关注于飞行员在进行着陆需要的一系列运算时是否犯了错误。她还说，委员会正在调查，机场的建设工作——它导致机场临时关闭了一个引导飞行员到合适降落斜坡的电子系统——是否在这次事故中起到了作用。
A government official in Washington said that the system had been out of service for several weeks because of construction at the end of the runway. Another system, which uses patterns of red and white lights to visually guide pilots, was in service, the official said.
一名华盛顿的政府官员称，该系统已经停用了好几周，原因是跑道尽头正在施工。使用红白灯光模式来从视觉上引导飞行员的另一套系统则正常运行，这名官员称。
“Even if it was the least experienced crew in Asiana Airlines, the maneuver that led to this crash, on a difficulty scale of 1 to 10, this was a 2 or 3 at the most,'’ said Oscar S. Garcia, the chairman of InterFlight Global Corporation, a consulting firm.
“即便是对韩亚航空(Asiana Airlines)最缺乏经验的人员来说，导致这一事故的手动操作，如果以1到10的困难级别来说，最多也就是2或3，”咨询公司国际航班全球公司(InterFlight Global Corporation)的董事长奥斯卡·S·加西亚(Oscar S. Garcia)说。
Two passengers were killed, and at least 180 people were injured. The dead passengers were identified on Sunday as two 16-year-old Chinese students on their way to a summer camp. The students, both women, were believed to have been seated toward the back of the passenger jet, said Yoon Young-doo, the president of Asiana Airlines. Their bodies were found on the runway.
两名乘客遇难，至少180人受伤。周日确认死者为两名16岁的中国学生，乘坐这次航班是为了参加夏令营。韩亚航空总裁尹永斗(Yoon Young-doo)说，这两名学生都是女性，据信坐在客机尾部。她们的尸体是在跑道上发现的。
The flight had originated in Shanghai and left Seoul, South Korea, for San Francisco. The two students, the Chinese news media reported, were from Zhejiang Province in eastern China. Of the 291 passengers on board, 141 were Chinese, including at least 70 students and teachers on their way to summer camps, the Chinese news media reported.
飞机从上海始发，经停韩国首尔后飞往旧金山。据中国新闻媒体报道，这两名学生来自中国东部的浙江省。中国新闻媒体称，机上的291名乘客中有141人是中国人，包括至少70名去往夏令营的学生和教师。
Asiana Airlines identified the two students as Ye Meng Yuan and Wang Lin Jia. They were among 30 high school students from the town of Jiangshan who were planning to attend a 15-day English language program at California universities, the Oriental Morning Post, a Shanghai newspaper, reported. The school has been organizing similar summer programs for more than a decade for students who typically pay about $5,000 to attend, the newspaper reported. Five teachers were accompanying the students.
韩亚航空确认两名学生为叶梦圆和王琳佳。上海报纸《东方早报》报道称，机上有来自江山市的30名高中生，计划去加利福尼亚州的大学参加一个15天的英语项目，两名死者就是其中成员。据该报报道，十多年来，他们所在的学校一直在组织类似的夏季项目，学生通常需为此支付约5000美元（约合3万元人民币）。这些学生有5名教师陪同。
Ms. Hersman said a crew member called for an increase in speed seven seconds before the plane clipped an embankment at the edge of the runway. The jetliner’s cockpit recorder included the sounds of an automatic shaking of the control yoke just before the crash, an indication that the plane was about to stall.
赫斯曼说，在飞机撞上跑道边缘的路堤7秒之前，一名机组成员曾要求提高速度。飞机驾驶舱的录音机记录下了控制杆自动摇晃的声音，这表明飞机将要失速。
The device also recorded a pilot’s voice calling for a go-around 1.5 seconds before the crash. While the engines responded normally, the move came too late to prevent the crash, Ms. Hersman said. The plane’s tail section then snapped off, and the plane skidded across the runway and caught fire. 
该设备还记录了一名飞行员在坠落1.5秒前要求拉回的喊声。发动机正常响应，但这一防止坠落的举动来得太晚，赫斯曼说。飞机的尾部随后折断，整个飞机滑出跑道并起火。
Ms. Hersman’s description of how the plane slowed generally tracks other data showing the jetliner began to descend too fast because it did not have enough airspeed.
赫斯曼对于飞机如何减速的描述大体与其他一些数据相符。这些数据显示，由于该喷气机空速不足，于是开始过快降落。
Data collected by an aviation firm suggested the plane was descending more than four times faster than normal shortly before it crashed. At 800 feet over San Francisco Bay, the plane was descending at 4,000 feet a minute on Saturday, according to data gathered from FlightAware, a company that listens to navigation broadcasts and sells the data to airlines and others. The normal approach profile is 600 to 800 feet a minute.
一家飞机公司搜集的数据显示，将要坠落的时候，飞机的降落速度比常速快四倍还多。航班跟踪公司(FlightAware)是一家收听导航广播，将数据出售给航空公司及其他方面的公司。该公司的数据显示，周六，在旧金山湾上空800英尺处，飞机以每分钟4000英尺的速度下降。正常的下降速度是每分钟600到800英尺。
The FlightAware data indicated that at 100 feet above the water, the plane was descending at more than 270 feet a minute when it should have been slowing to a rate of a few feet per second. FlightAware’s data is not as precise as the information available to investigators from the plane’s flight data recorder, which the safety board began examining on Sunday. But it provides an indication that in the last moments of the flight, unless there was some as-yet undisclosed mechanical problem, crew members, from their own instrumentation, should have been aware that the plane was descending too fast.
该公司的数据显示，在高于水面100英尺处，这架飞机本该减速至每秒几英尺，实际降落速度却高于每分钟270英尺。该数据不如飞机航行数据记录器提供给调查者的数据精确。周日，安全委员会开始调查后一数据。但是，航班跟踪公司的数据显示，在航行的最后时刻，除非还存在一些尚未揭晓的机械故障，航班人员应该根据自己的仪表操作察觉到飞机降落过快。
Aviation experts said that the pilots, who were both veterans, could have also relied on red and white signal lights on the runway to visually guide the plane to touch down or, if they chose, on the plane’s onboard computers to generate the angle of approach.
航空专家称，两名飞行员都是老手，本来可以借助跑道上的红白指示灯，靠视觉引导飞机着陆，还可以选择使用飞机上的计算机得出着陆的角度。
Witnesses and passengers have described the jetliner as coming in too low and clipping a rocky embankment at the edge of the water just before the runway. The plane’s tail section then snapped off, and the plane skidded across the runway and caught fire.
根据目击者及乘客的描述，该飞机降得过低，在靠近跑道的地方撞上了一座岩石堤坝。飞机的机尾部分随即断掉，飞机滑出跑道并着火。
Another 30 students and 6 teachers from Shanxi Province in northern China were also aboard the flight, Xinhua, China’s official news service reported. One teacher from that group was reported injured.
中国官媒新华社称，机上还有来自中国北部山西省的30名学生及6名教师。据报道，该团队的一名教师受了伤。
Ms. Wang’s parents were waiting with a group of other parents from their daughter’s school when they were told of her death. They “burst into tears,” according to Zhejiang Online, a news Web site.
与女儿一些同学的父母一起等待消息的时候，王琳佳的父母得知了女儿的死讯。浙江在线网站称，他们“痛哭起来”。
Mr. Yoon said Asiana Airlines did not believe there was anything wrong with the Boeing 777, which had been bought in 2006.
尹永斗称，韩亚航空公司(Asiana Airlines)不认为这架购于2006年的波音777有任何故障。
“So far, we don’t believe that there was anything wrong with the B777-200 or its engine,” he said. He also apologized for the crash, saying, “We are deeply sorry for causing the trouble.”
他说，“迄今为止，我们并不认为这架B777-200或其引擎有任何故障。”他还为这起事故道了歉，“我们为导致这种麻烦深感抱歉。”
Aviation experts said the landing should have been well within the capabilities of the airplane and the crew.
航空专家称，该飞机及工作人员本来应该完全有能力控制此次着陆。
Airlines had been told that the system was out of service, and many carriers, including Asiana, had been landing for weeks on that runway without difficulty, a U.S. official said. Air traffic control tapes indicate that the controller cleared the plane for a visual approach, for which the system was not necessary.
一名美国官员称，航空公司提前得到了前述系统停用的通知，此外，包括韩亚航空在内的许多航空公司多已经在这条跑道上着陆几个星期，并没有遇到什么困难。空中交通管制录像带显示，管制人员为该飞机靠视觉引导着陆扫清了障碍，靠视觉着陆无需使用该系统。
Still, some experts said that pilots often have little opportunity to practice landings without the aid of such technology, particularly on international flights into large, technologically advanced airports like San Francisco International.
然而，一些专家称，一般来说，飞行员很少有机会在没有这种技术辅助的情况下进行着陆，尤其是驾驶国际航班进入像旧金山国际机场这样的高科技大机场的飞行员。