The Boeing 777 that crashed here Saturday hit a rocky sea wall at the edge of the airport so hard that debris from the wall was found several hundred feet down the runway where the plane was supposed to land, the chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board said on Monday.
美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)主席周一表示，周六坠毁在旧金山的波音(Boeing)777客机撞上了机场边缘的一道石质海堤，撞击十分猛烈，以至于海堤的碎片出现在了几百英尺之外飞机本应降落的那条跑道上。
As her investigators began interviewing the four pilots in the cockpit, they were looking at all possible causes, but they were trying to piece together how an experienced crew in an advanced jet with no obvious mechanical problems came down in near-perfect weather hundreds of feet from the intended touchdown point.
安全委员会的调查人员开始询问驾驶舱中的四名飞行员，试图寻找所有可能的原因，不过，他们试图拿出一个完整的解释，为什么一个经验丰富的机组，驾驶一架没有明显机械故障的先进飞机，竟然会在几近完美的天气状况下坠落在了一个离指定降落地点数百英尺的地方。
Two passengers died and about 50 were seriously injured when the plane, Asiana Flight 214, crashed in clear weather on Saturday morning, while making a routine visual approach.
周六早间，韩亚航空214航班在天气晴朗的状况下进行例行的目视降落时坠机，导致两名乘客死亡，约50人严重受伤。
The chairwoman, Deborah A. P. Hersman, said, “We’re looking at some issues with respect to the crew,” but warned that the board was a long way from reaching a conclusion. “We want to understand the humans, we want to understand the aircraft.”
委员会主席德博拉·A·P·赫斯曼(Deborah A. P. Hersman)说，“我们正在调查一些关于机组成员的问题”，但又提醒说，委员会远未得出一个结论。“我们想要了解人为因素，也想了解飞机的因素。”
On Monday in Seoul, South Korea, the president of Asiana, Yoon Young-doo, said that one of the two pilots at the controls, Lee Kang-guk, was making his first landing at San Francisco in a 777, in which he had only 43 hours of flying time and eight landings. But Mr. Lee had landed here numerous times at the controls of a 747, Mr. Yoon said. Normal procedure for pilots upgrading to another aircraft is to be paired with a more experienced colleague, and in fact three of them were on board on Saturday. The N.T.S.B. has not said yet if all four were in the cockpit, although that would be the normal procedure.
周一，韩亚航空总裁尹永斗(Yoon Young-doo)在韩国首尔说，两名飞行员之一，当时正在操控飞机的李强国（Lee Kang-guk，音译），这是他第一次驾驶波音777在旧金山降落，他的777驾驶经验只有43小时飞行和8次降落。不过，尹永斗说，李强国曾经驾驶747在这里降落了许多次。将一名飞行员升级到另一架飞机上的正常程序是由另一名更有经验的同事陪同，而在周六，这样的陪同人员实际上有三名。委员会没有说明当时是否四个人都在驾驶舱内，尽管那应当是正常程序。
If the cause of the Asiana 214 crash here is as simple as it looks at first glance — the crew mismanaging the approach — the board could eventually recommend adding more bells and whistles to the 777’s cockpit, but it has many already, experts say.
专家称，如果韩亚214航班坠机的原因只是像看上去那样——机组成员在降落时错误操作——委员会可能会最终建议给777的驾驶舱增加更多的警报铃声和哨声，然而，机上的警报装置本来就已经很多了。
Preliminary data showed the crew let the plane’s airspeed deteriorate, which could have been equipment failure, mismanagement of automated systems or simple neglect. Cockpit indicators clearly display target airspeed, which is based in part on factors like aircraft weight. Airspeed dropped to 103 knots — about 118 miles per hour — but the target speed was 137 knots.
初步的数据显示，机组成员令飞机的空速衰减，可能是由于设备故障或自动化设备操作不善，亦或只是疏忽大意。驾驶舱的指示明确地显示了目标空速，这部分是基于飞机的重量等因素。当时的空速下降到103节（约每小时190公里），但目标空速应该是137节。
The investigators have not said publicly if the crew was using the auto-throttle. If the crew was confused about whether the auto-throttle was engaged, that could have been a factor, according to aviation experts. The investigators have not even said who was in charge of the landing.
调查人员尚未公开宣布，机组人员是否使用了自动节流阀。航空专家称，如果机组成员不知道自动节流阀是否已经启用，这可能会是个因素。调查人员甚至尚未宣布，当时是由谁在负责降落。
On the 777 that crashed, a low-airspeed warning called a stick shaker, which literally shakes the control yoke that the pilots hold in their hands, activated shortly before the crash, but it came too late for the crew to react successfully. The throttles were moved to a higher setting eight seconds before impact, Ms. Hersman said. On a big jet, though, the engines take time to develop power. The plane was at an altitude of only 125 feet at that point.
在坠毁的777上，失速警告在即将坠毁前启动了自动震杆器，该设备会摇动飞行员手中的操作杆，可惜时机过晚，以致机组成员未能成功反应。赫斯曼说，撞击8秒前，节流阀被调到了一个较高的设置上。然而，大型飞机的引擎需要时间来产生动力，而飞机当时的高度仅有125英尺（约合38米）。
Inadvertent loss of airspeed is nothing new; among the many jet crashes in which it played a role is the one that killed Senator Paul Wellstone in Minnesota in 2002. But that was a charter with a single pilot.
飞机的意外失速并不是什么新鲜事；这在许多飞机坠毁事件中都起到了作用，例如2002年明尼苏达州导致参议员保罗·威尔斯通(Paul Wellstone)身亡的那一次。但那是一架仅有一名飞行员的租赁飞机。
Rather than onboard equipment, experts point to other elements that may loom large in this investigation, involving training, procedures and human factors.
专家指出，除了飞机上的设备之外，调查中的重要方面可能还包括训练、程序及人为因素。
One is overreliance on technology, some of which was not available on Saturday. Part of the instrument landing system on Runway 28 Left here had been shut down because of construction.
其中一个因素就是过度依赖技术，而一些设备在周六当天不能使用。由于施工，机场28L跑道的仪表着陆系统已经部分关闭。
The 777 is built to lock on to the instrument landing system, accepting its signals for lateral and horizontal navigation to land in the correct spot on the tarmac. American pilots use that capability often, especially when visibility is poor, but airports prefer visual approaches to instrument approaches, because the planes can squeeze slightly closer together. And American pilots often switch off the auto-land capability to “hand-fly” the airplane.
根据这架777的设计构造，它需要锁定该仪表着陆系统，接受其侧向及水平导航信号，以着陆于停机坪的正确地点。美国飞行员常常使用该系统，在能见度不高的情况下尤为如此。但是，更仪表着陆比起来，机场更偏好视觉着陆，因为这样就能让飞机与飞机挨得紧一些。而且美国飞行员常常关闭自动着陆功能，选择“手动控制”飞机。
But in Asia, “there is high reluctance to hand-fly the airplane,” said Oscar S. Garcia, now the chief executive of InterFlight Global, a consulting firm, but formerly a 777 pilot with a major Asian carrier. Others say such reliance is common in developing countries. In any case, it can limit the proficiency of pilots landing under visual flight rules. This is a bigger problem for bigger planes because they make longer flights and thus fewer landings. The crew had turned off the autopilot at 1,600 feet; they could not land by autopilot without the instrument landing system.
但是，咨询公司国际航班全球公司(InterFlight Global Corporation)董事长奥斯卡·S·加西亚(Oscar S. Garcia)说，在亚洲，“飞行员极其不愿意手动控制飞机”。加西亚曾是亚洲某大型航空公司的777飞行员。其他人说，这种依赖在发展中国家很常见。不管怎么说，这终归会限制飞行员对视觉着陆的熟练程度。这对于较大的飞机来说，这是个更大的问题，因为这种飞机航程较长，着陆次数较少。这次航班的机组在1600英尺的高度关闭了自动飞行。在没有仪表着陆系统帮助的情况下，他们无法以自动飞行方式着陆。
Another issue is making use of all the people in the cockpit. That issue was highlighted by the other big Korean carrier, Korean Air, in a 1997 crash in Guam. In that crash, too, part of the instrument landing system was out of service for scheduled maintenance. But the captain of a 747 insisted it was working, and managed to tune the plane’s radio to pick up some stray signal he concluded was the glide-slope indicator, which helps keep planes at the correct descent angle. It was not, and the junior officer, the flight engineer, kept saying so, but the captain pressed on, bringing the plane down in the jungle several miles short of the runway.
另外一个问题是，如何善用驾驶舱里的所有人员。1997年，另一家韩国航空公司大韩航空公司(Korean Air)在关岛撞机时，凸显了该问题。在那次撞机事件中，由于常规维修，部分仪表着陆系统也是不能使用。但是，那架747的机长坚持认为该系统仍能使用，并且调试飞机上的无线电，收到了一些别处发来的信号片段。他认为这些信号是用于帮助飞机保持正确降落角度的滑翔斜率指标，实际上却并非如此。作为航班工程师的副驾驶员也一直在向机长反映真实的情况，但机长固执己见，致使飞机坠落在了跑道几英里外的丛林里。
Robert T. Francis, who was the vice chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board at the time of the Guam crash, said that making good use of all the people in the cockpit was essential. “It’s important when you have four sets of eyes in the cockpit, that everyone, if they see something wrong, be encouraged to sing out,” he said.
在关岛撞机事件发生时，罗伯特·T·佛朗西斯(Robert T. Francis)是当时的美国国家运输安全委员会副主席。他说，善用驾驶舱内的全部人员非常关键。他说，“要让驾驶舱内有四双关注的眼睛，并且鼓励所有人报告任何异常情况，这一点非常重要。”
But Asiana 214 may have had a difficult mix. Gregory Feith, who was in charge in the Guam accident and is now a safety consultant, pointed out that there were three captains on board and a pilot new to the aircraft. “You usually don’t fly with three captains,” he said, and in some other accidents involving teams of two captains (instead of a captain and a first officer), the captains failed to monitor each other. “You start having senior guys in the cockpit, rather than a regular captain and a regular line first officer, and maybe there’s not the same situational awareness, the same checking the other guy,” he said.
但是，韩亚航空214航班的人员构成比较棘手。格里高利·费斯(Gregory Feith)当年曾负责调查关岛事故，现在是一名安全咨询师。他指出，这架飞机上有三名机长，及一名新驾驶该飞机的飞行员。他说，“飞机上通常不会有三名机长。”而且，在其他一些小组当中有两名机长的事故中（而非一名机长及一名副驾驶员），机长都不能彼此监督。他说，“如果驾驶舱内都是些资深飞行员，而非通常的一名机长及一名副驾驶，可能就不会有通常那种对情况的警觉度，不能像通常那样制约其他人员。”
“You would suspect there had to be some oversight issues,” he said.
他说，“你免不了怀疑，监督上存在问题。”