SEOUL, South Korea — As hopeful singles at the speed dating event shifted from table to table introducing themselves, Park Chang-won, a 32-year-old firefighter, grew more and more morose.
韩国首尔——在一场快速相亲活动中，当满怀希望的单身男女从一张桌子换到另一张桌子介绍自己时，32岁的消防员朴昌源（Park Chang-won，音译）却越来越郁闷。
By the time he reached the last table, Mr. Park, whose dark eyebrows give him a brooding look, was uttering only his name and age. Then he sank into silence.
他浓黑的眉毛令他看起来闷闷不乐，轮到最后一张桌子时，他只是介绍了自己的姓名和年龄，之后便陷入了沉默。
“It felt awkward from the outset,” Mr. Park said later, as he explained that a lifetime spent around men — at boys’ schools, the military and now as a fireman — had made meeting women harder.
朴昌源后来说，“我从一开始就觉得别扭。”他解释说，他一辈子都主要和男性打交道，上男校，之后去部队，现在又是一名消防员，这一切都让接触女人变得难上加难。
Anywhere else, Mr. Park’s dating woes might have been strictly personal. But in South Korea, fretful about plummeting birthrates but still tied to conservative ideas about matchmaking, solving the difficulties of the lovelorn has become something of a national priority. In perhaps the surest sign of that anxiety, the event he attended was one of dozens of dating parties nationwide sponsored by an unlikely matchmaker, the government.
在其他任何地方，朴昌源的约会难题可能都与他人无关。但在韩国，这个因出生率急剧下滑而头疼，但同时却又仍受制于婚配观念的国家，解决单身问题已成为这个国家的头等大事。政府在全国范围内组织了几十次相亲活动，朴昌源参加的速配活动只是其中之一，是由政府这个最不像媒人的媒人赞助的。这些活动或许就是这种担忧最明显的一个表现。
In a country where arranged courtships are fading into the past, the Ministry of Health and Welfare began promoting the idea of dating parties in 2010. Under the enthusiastic leadership of its minister at the time, Cheon Jae-hee, it held four parties that year that brought together its workers and employees at local corporations — making a splash in the news media. Ms. Cheon officiated at the wedding of the first couple who met at one. Featured in a magazine article before the wedding, the 31-year-old groom-to-be thanked the government profusely and wondered if two children would be enough to meet expectations.
在这个恋爱包办正在成为过去时的国家，保健福祉部(Ministry of Health and Welfare)于2010年开始提倡相亲会这种做法。在时任长官全在姬(Cheon Jae-hee)的热情带领下，该部在那一年共举办了四次相亲会，让部里的员工与当地公司职员联谊，在媒体上引起轰动。全在姬还主持了在相亲会上相识并结合的第一新人的婚礼。在婚礼前刊出的一篇杂志特写文章中，那名31岁的准新郎再三感谢政府，并称不知道生两个孩子能不能满足大家的期望。
Since then, sponsorship of the parties has shifted mainly to ministry affiliates and local governments, which can win financial rewards for activities that promote marriage and childbirth. The municipal government that threw the party Mr. Park attended has been named a role model by the city of Seoul. One government-financed agency, the Planned Population Federation of Korea, claims a different kind of victory: by hosting parties, it is working to undo its past success when it encouraged vasectomies as a booming South Korea feared being held back by population growth.
从那时起，这种相亲会的赞助责任便基本转由部级下属机构和地方政府承担，这些地方可以通过组织促进结婚、生育的活动来赢得经济上的回报。组织朴昌源所参加相亲会的市政府已经被首尔市立为模范。政府资助的组织韩国人口计划联合会(Planned Population Federation of Korea)则取得了另一种胜利：该组织通过组织相亲会来消除以往成就的影响，因为害怕韩国的繁荣会被人口增长拖后腿，该机构曾鼓励男性做输精管切除术。
Government officials are not the only ones trying to replace the traditional matchmakers that many young people consider increasingly old-fashioned. Corporations, fearing critical shortages of workers in an aging society, have begun ending informal bans against office romances, with some now paying for dating services for their workers. College students have leapt online to set up mass dating events, including a much-publicized flash-mob blind date last winter in downtown Seoul. And entrepreneurs have opened bars where waiters serve as informal go-betweens.
政府官员并不是唯一试图取代许多年轻人心中日益过时的传统媒人的机构。害怕在老龄化社会中面临劳动力短缺的企业，也开始取消禁止办公室恋情不成文的规定，有一些公司还向婚介服务机构付钱为员工介绍对象。大学生则迫不及待地上网组织大规模相亲活动，比如去年冬天在首尔市中心举办的那次快闪盲约活动，这次活动吸引了大量的媒体报道。而企业家也开始开办酒吧，服务生则充当介绍人。
There are online dating services as well, but many young Koreans remain uncomfortable searching for a partner on their own. Most prefer to rely on the companies to take their information and make the match for them.
此外，还有那些网上约会服务，但是很多韩国年轻人依然不习惯自己去寻找伴侣。大多数人更喜欢依靠公司，让公司拿他们的信息去配对。
So far, though, the results of these efforts have been mixed. Korean society is organized around group affiliations — hometown ties and school and corporate friendships — so meeting a potential spouse without formal introductions to merit family approval has proved difficult, even for those enamored with the concept.
但是，到目前为止，这些努力的结果喜忧参半。韩国社会是以熟人群体为中心构架起来的，比如同乡关系以及在学校和公司结下的友谊，这样一来，在没有正式介绍以获得家庭认可的情况下，接触潜在的结婚对象依然很难，甚至是对那些热衷这一观念的人来说也是如此。
“I usually date girls I get set up with by my friends, but tonight I came to this party to find someone naturally,” said Yang Sung-mo, 29, who tucked a dapper purple handkerchief into his blazer pocket to attend a bar event for singles. “Still, I doubt it’s going to work unless I am introduced.”
29岁的梁崇模（Yang Sung-mo，音译）来参加为单身人士举办的酒吧活动，上衣口袋里放着精致的紫色手帕，他说，“我一般和朋友介绍的女孩约会，不过今晚我来这里看能不能自然地遇到什么人。不过，我怀疑这会成功，除非有人介绍。”
Until the 1980s, young people relied on matchmakers and family connections to find spouses, sociologists say. With so many people living in ancestral villages, it was easy for parents to find good matches for their children. Among the criteria considered: family status and birth dates checked by fortune tellers for compatibility.
一些社会学研究者表示，上世纪80年代以前，年轻人一直依赖媒人和家庭关系来寻找伴侣。许多人都生活在世代居住的村庄，父母很容易能给子女找个门当户对的伴侣。当时考虑的因素包括：家庭地位，以及算命先生根据生辰八字测算的匹配度。
Those practices waned as industrialization started an exodus to South Korean cities. Far from traditional networks, families turned to a growing number of dating services that performed background checks. And young people turned to friends whose role is taken seriously enough that they receive gifts at weddings. (Standard thank you presents include tailored suits and cash.)
随着韩国的工业化引发人群向城市迁徙，这种做法日渐式微。远离传统关系网的家庭转而求助于日益增多的婚介机构来进行背景调查。年轻人则求助于朋友，朋友在其间扮演的角色极其重要，成功的话会在婚礼上收到答谢礼。（标准的答谢礼包括定制的套装和礼金。）
But in recent years, urban youth exposed to the West begun to complain that even the less formal blind dates set up by friends were stressful.
不过近年来，受到西方影响的城市年轻人开始抱怨，就算是朋友介绍的不太正式的相亲见面也会有压力。
“I want to meet someone I feel for,” said Lee Su-seong, 29, who waited nervously with a group of friends at the Blue Ketchup Bar in Seoul, where waiters hand out “Cupid cards” from admirers as an icebreaker.
在首尔的蓝番茄酱酒吧(Blue Ketchup Bar)里，29岁的李守成（Lee Su-seong，音译）和一群朋友一起紧张地等待着，他说，“我希望能遇到有感觉的人。”在这里，侍者会传递爱慕者送出的“丘比特卡”来打破僵局。
The catch with such unorthodox approaches, said Hahm In-hee, a professor of sociology at Ewha Womans University, is that society has not been prepared for such a radical change.
梨花女子大学(Ewha Womans University)的社会学教授韩仁熙（Hahm In-hee，音译）说，这种非传统方式的困难之处在于，社会还没有准备好迎接这样激烈的变化。
“Approaching or socializing with someone you don’t know at all feels very unfamiliar to Koreans,” she said. “It is very awkward to mingle with someone without knowing who the other person’s parents are, where they are from, etc.”
“对韩国人而言，搭讪或交往完全不认识的人是种很陌生的感觉，”她说，“不知道对方的父母和家乡等信息，就与之接触，这是非常别扭的。”
Of all the new approaches now being tried, the flash mob was the most famous failure. About 3,000 young people showed up at sprawling Yoido Plaza, despite frigid temperatures. At 3:24 p.m. their phones rang, signaling that the date hunting could begin, but the crowd suffered a case of mass jitters. (It did not help that the police were dispatched to chaperon the event because parents were afraid of sexual assaults.)
在所有正在尝试的新方法中，快闪失败得最彻底。尽管天寒地冻，还是有3000名年轻人出现在了硕大的汝矣岛广场。下午3点24分，他们的手机响了，标志着可以开始寻找约会对象了，但人群中出现了集体紧张。（由于家长担心有性侵犯行为，警察被派到活动现场进行保护，更是扫了兴。）
The event fizzled in 10 minutes, though the organizer said that about 100 couples managed to arrange a first date.
活动10分钟后就草草收场，不过组织者宣称，约有100对年轻人成功地安排了首次约会。
The heart of the problem, local officials and others say, is that South Koreans have gotten ahead of themselves. As the country modernizes rapidly, many of its urban youth are chafing not only at arranged courtships but also at dates arranged by friends. Mr. Park avoids matches set up by his family, but says countless blind dates arranged by his friends have too often left him stammering through small talk with women who are not interested in him, or he in them.
地方官员等人认为，问题的核心是韩国人太急于求成了。随着韩国迅速现代化，许多城市年轻人不仅对包办恋爱不满，也对朋友介绍的约会不满。朴昌源没有参加家人安排的相亲，不过他表示，在朋友安排的无数次相亲见面时，他都是有一搭没一搭、结结巴巴地说着话，不是对方看不上他，就是他对别人没兴趣。
Still, he and most other young South Koreans are not yet comfortable with the Western notion of casual dating as a path to finding a spouse, and the idea of approaching a stranger to start of a meaningful relationship sends many into spasms of shyness.
尽管如此，他这样的多数韩国年轻人还是不适应通过随意约会寻找伴侣的西式概念，而且与陌生人搭讪从而开启一段有意义关系的想法也让许多人感到害羞。
But social mores are slowly shifting. Sociologists say young people are generally more open to premarital sex than past generations were, and with most living at home until they get married, they have found ways to escape parents’ prying eyes, including ducking into love hotels. But those changes do not diminish the need for proper introductions for serious relationships.
但社会习俗正在缓慢地转变。社会学研究者表示，年轻人对婚前性行为的态度大多比上一代人更开放。而且，由于多数人婚前与父母一起住，他们会想法设法逃脱家长的监视，包括躲进情人旅店。不过，这些变化没能撼动通过恰当的介绍来形成严肃关系的需求。
The difficulties in meeting potential spouses have exacerbated an increasing tendency among South Koreans to marry late. As young women have gotten better jobs, analysts say, many are loath to give them up to shepherd children through a hypercompetitive education system and care for aging in-laws.
遇见未来伴侣的难度已经让韩国人越来越显著的晚婚趋势进一步加强。分析人士称，随着年轻女性获得更好的工作，许多人不愿放弃工作来陪伴子女在一个竞争超级激烈的教育体系中奋斗，同时还要照顾年长的公婆。
In 2011, the average age of a first marriage for South Korean women hit 29.14, up from 24.8 in 1990; for men it jumped to 31.8 from 27.9 in 1990. The birthrate sunk to 1.15 children per woman, the lowest among the world’s most developed countries.
2011年，韩国女性和男性的平均初婚年龄分别达到了29.14岁和31.8岁，而1990年的这两项数据分别是24.8岁和27.9岁。生育率也已降至每名女性生育1.15人，在全球最发达国家中最低。
Young people and researchers say the situation has worsened as South Koreans born into greater wealth have become more materialistic and status conscious.
年轻人和研究人员表示，随着生来富裕的这一代韩国变得更加崇尚物质和地位，情况已进一步恶化。
“Korean women are too picky with all sorts of criteria, including which college the guy goes to, and whether or not he has a car,” said Yu Tae-hyeong, who set up the flash mob. Men, he said, are more concerned with women’s looks.
组织快闪活动的柳泰赫（Yu Tae-hyeong，音译）说，“韩国女性太挑剔，要求太多，包括男方上什么样的大学，是不是有车等等。”他还称，男性更关心的是女性的长相。
So far, several young people said, the government matchmaking parties have proved the best mix of old and new. Local officials perform thorough background checks, matchmaker-style, but once everyone is vetted, officials encourage them to mingle freely.
几名年轻人表示，截至目前，政府组织的相亲会证明是新旧结合的最佳案例。地方官员进行相亲式的彻底背景调查，等到每个人都通过之后，官员就会鼓励他们自由接触。
That is little comfort for the hapless Mr. Park from the speed dating party.
这并没有给速配派对上不走运的朴昌源带来多少慰籍。
In the end, he abandoned all caution when the organizers asked if anyone would publicly say who they most wanted to meet. He pointed to a woman with an infectious grin who he respected for not trying to hide her braces, then knelt to present her with a bouquet provided by the party planners.
最后，组织者问有没有人愿意当众表态最想与谁约会，他抛弃了所有的矜持，指向了一名笑容颇有感染力的女性，因为她没有试图隐藏自己的牙套，让他有了好感。然后，他跪下来给她献上了组织者提供的花束。
She covered her face with her hands and refused to give him her phone number. Later, she and her friends left with a group of young men. Mr. Park was not invited.
她用双手遮住了脸，拒绝透露自己的电话号码。后来，她和朋友一起同一群男青年离开了。朴昌源没有受到邀请。
“I guess I will continue the introduction thing through friends,” he said later. “But I think praying is the only answer.”
“我想，我还会继续通过朋友介绍，”他后来说，“不过我认为，祈祷才是唯一的答案。”