SEOUL, South Korea — A South Korean Army sergeant was sentenced to death on Tuesday for killing five of his fellow conscripts and wounding seven others in a shooting rampage in June.
韩国首尔——周二，一名韩国陆军兵长被判处死刑，理由是他在去年6月开枪射杀了五名战友，并造成另外七人受伤。
The 23-year-old sergeant, whom a military court identified only by his surname, Yim, attacked soldiers in his unit near the North Korean border with a rifle and a hand grenade, then fled his guard post. After a manhunt, he was captured the next morning, alive but with a self-inflicted gunshot wound near his shoulder.
军事法院只透露这名兵长姓林(Yim)。23岁的林某在韩朝边境附近用一把步枪和一颗手榴弹袭击了同一部队的战友，然后逃离了自己的岗哨。在一番追捕之后，林某于第二天上午被抓捕归案，其肩部附近有自己造成的枪伤。
The sergeant “committed a detailed and premeditated crime of murdering unarmed colleagues in the barracks,” the military court in Wonju, a city east of Seoul, said in its ruling Tuesday.
首尔以东的原州市的军事法院周二在判决中称，这名兵长“实施了一宗周密而有预谋的犯罪，在营地谋杀了手无寸铁的战友”。
Sergeant Yim’s lawyers said that they would appeal, arguing that the court had failed to take into account the persistent bullying and ostracizing that the sergeant said he suffered at the hands of his fellow soldiers in the barracks.
林某的律师表示，他们将会上诉，理由是法院没有考虑这名兵长的证词，也就是他在部队里长期受到欺凌和排斥的情况。
At the time of the killings, the sergeant was three months short of finishing the 21 months of military service required of most young South Korean men. Before shooting himself, he had written a note in which he described the bullying he said he experienced.
在杀人事件爆发时，林某还有三个月就将结束韩国年轻男子必须完成的21个月兵役。在朝自己开枪之前，他写了一张字条，描述了自己受到的欺凌。
The case was the latest to highlight the challenges that South Korea, which technically has been at war with North Korea for more than 60 years, faces in maintaining its largely conscript military. The Ministry of National Defense has since promised to review its screening process to ensure that soldiers chosen for the grueling guard duty along the heavily militarized, 150-mile-long border with the North are mentally and physically fit for the task.
这桩案件再次突显了韩国在维持主要由应征士兵组成的军队时面临的挑战。严格来讲，韩国与朝鲜在过去60多年里一直处于交战状态。事件发生后，韩国国防部承诺，将重新评估筛查程序，确保将生理与心理状况合适的人选派去韩朝边境，在那250公里长的高度军事化的边界线附近承担艰苦的守卫任务。