ASAHIKAWA, Japan — Japan’s Foreign Ministry summoned a South Korean diplomat on Thursday to protest the filing of charges against a Japanese journalist in Seoul, in the latest spat to divide the two countries.
日本旭川——周四，日本外务省(Foreign Ministry)召见韩国外交官，就日本记者在首尔遭到起诉一事提出抗议，这是引发两国分歧的最新争端。
The ministry made the move to oppose the indictment the day before of Tatsuya Kato, 48, the former Seoul bureau chief for the Japanese newspaper Sankei Shimbun. South Korean prosecutors charged Mr. Kato with defaming the South Korean president, Park Geun-hye. Mr. Kato has not been arrested, but he is barred from leaving South Korea.
日本外务省就日本《产经新闻》(Sankei Shimbun)首尔分社原社长——48岁的加藤达也(Tatsuya Kato)前一天遭到控告一事，召见韩国外交官表示抗议。韩国检察官控告加藤达也涉嫌诽谤韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)。加藤达也没有被逮捕，但他被禁止离开韩国。
Mr. Kato was indicted over an article published in early August that suggested, without providing evidence, that Ms. Park was slow to respond to the deadly sinking in April of the ferry Sewol because she might have been having a romantic encounter with a former aide at the time. South Korean officials have dismissed the allegation as false.
加藤达也因为今年8月初发表的一篇文章而遭到起诉，该文章在没有提供证据的情况下，暗示朴槿惠对今年4月“世越号”(Sewol)沉没事故反应迟缓，因为她当时可能与一名前助手浪漫邂逅。韩国官员则将之驳斥为虚假报道。
In his article, Mr. Kato cited as a source an earlier column by the Chosun Ilbo, a major South Korean newspaper, that made oblique references to rumors about what Ms. Park was doing in the early hours of the disaster.
加藤达也在文章中引用了韩国主要报纸《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)早些时候的专栏文章，该文章间接提到有关朴槿惠在事故发生后几个小时里的行动的传闻。
The fact that Korean prosecutors have not pressed charges against the Korean newspaper, but only against the Sankei, a conservative newspaper that has been critical of South Korea on history issues, has led some Japanese to call the indictment politically motivated.
韩国检察官没有对这家韩国报社提起诉讼，只是起诉了日本保守报纸《产经新闻》，因此一些日本人称这一指控存在政治动机。而该报则一直在历史问题上谴责韩国。
In its indictment, the Seoul Central District Prosecutors’ Office accused Mr. Kato of not making “minimum efforts” to verify what he wrote.
首尔中央地方检察厅(Seoul Central District Prosecutors Office)在起诉书中称，加藤达也对所写内容“完全不作”核实。
On Thursday, Junichi Ihara, Japan’s Foreign Ministry official in charge of Asian affairs, called in Kim Won-jin, a minister at the South Korean Embassy in Tokyo, to protest the indictment.
周四，日本外务省负责亚洲事务的官员伊原纯一(Junichi Ihara)召见韩国驻东京大使馆公使金元辰 (Kim Won-jin)，对韩方起诉日本记者一事表示抗议。
Mr. Ihara told Mr. Kim that the charges were “extremely regrettable in the view of the freedom of the press and Japan-South Korea relations,” according to Japan’s Kyodo News agency.
据日本共同社(Kyodo News agency)报道，伊原纯一告诉金元辰，日本记者遭起诉一事，“无论从新闻自由还是日韩关系来看，均十分令人遗憾。”