SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s main spy agency on Tuesday accused North Korea of hacking the smartphones of dozens of senior government officials here, saying that Pyongyang had stolen their text messages, contact information and voice conversations.
韩国首尔——本周二，韩国主要情报机构指责朝鲜黑客攻击了韩国数十名高级政府官员的智能手机，窃取了他们的短信、联系人信息和语音通话记录。
The agency, the National Intelligence Service, has said that South Korea faces a growing threat of major online attacks from the North, possibly in retaliation for the latest international sanctions over Pyongyang’s nuclear arms and missile programs. Seoul imposed new sanctions of its own against North Korea on Tuesday.
韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)称，来自朝鲜的网络攻击威胁正在日益加剧，朝鲜因核武器和导弹计划遭到最新一轮国际制裁之后，可能采取报复行动。首尔自己也在本周二对朝鲜实施了新的制裁。
The intelligence agency said in a news release that it had shared information about recent North Korean hacking attempts in a meeting on Tuesday with other government agencies, which was called to discuss the country’s readiness for a major online attack.
该情报机构在一份新闻稿中说，在周二的一个会议上，它已经向其他政府机构通报了朝鲜最近的黑客攻击活动；这个会议的主题是讨论面对重大网络攻击的备战状况。
Between late February and early March, the agency said, North Korea tried to infiltrate the smartphones of senior South Korean officials by sending them text messages designed to activate a virus. About 20 percent of those phones were infected with the virus, according to the agency, which did not identify the officials who had been targeted.
该机构说，在2月底和3月初，朝鲜试图通过发送旨在激活一种病毒的短信，渗透到韩国高级官员的智能手机中。该机构称这些手机中大约有20%感染了这种病毒，但未透露哪些官员遭到了攻击。
The agency also said that North Korea had successfully hacked into the network of a company that provided security software for an online banking system used by more than 20 million South Koreans. But it said that the attack, which took place in February, was detected early and that there was no major disruption to banking services.
该机构还称，朝鲜已经成功地侵入了一家公司的网络，该公司为逾2000万韩国人使用的网上银行系统提供安全软件。但它说，那起发生在2月的网络攻击被及时发现，并未造成任何重大的银行服务中断。
The intelligence service did not explain how it had concluded that North Korea was responsible.
情报部门没有解释它是如何得出结论，认为那次攻击应该由朝鲜负责。
The United Nations Security Council adopted new sanctions last week to punish North Korea for conducting its fourth nuclear test on Jan. 6 and launching a long-range rocket on Feb. 7. South Korea has been a leading advocate for the tougher penalties, which are aimed at the North’s ability to raise funds for its weapons programs and target luxury goods, which analysts believe are used to ensure the loyalty of the North’s ruling elite.
上周，联合国安理会通过了新的制裁决议，对朝鲜在1月6日进行的第四次核试验，以及2月7日发射一枚远程火箭进行惩罚。韩国一直在积极倡导对朝鲜施加这种更严厉的惩罚，以打击朝鲜为武器计划和奢侈品募集资金的能力；分析人士认为，这些奢侈品被用来确保朝鲜统治权贵阶层的忠诚。
Also on Tuesday, South Korea announced new sanctions against the North, banning all ships visiting North Korea from making port calls in the South for six months. Japan announced a similar measure last month.
同样在周二，韩国宣布对朝鲜实施新的制裁，所有前往朝鲜的船只在半年内不能停靠韩国港口。日本上个月宣布了类似的措施。
Officials in the South said shipping sanctions would have some “concrete” impact because fewer ships would be willing to visit the North. But the overall efforts to squeeze North Korea depend on cooperation from China, its largest trading partner.
韩国官员说，运输制裁会产生一些“具体”的影响，因为愿意前往朝鲜的船只将会减少。但从总体上说，给朝鲜施压的努力有赖于其最大贸易伙伴中国的合作。
Seoul had already banned most direct trade with North Korea after the sinking of a navy ship in 2010, which it attributed to a North Korean torpedo attack. At the time, it also banned new investment in the North and blocked all North Korean ships from entering its waters.
自2010年朝鲜鱼雷击沉一艘韩国海军舰艇后，首尔禁止了与朝鲜之间的直接贸易。当时它还禁止了新的对朝投资，不允许任何朝鲜船只进入其水域。
Last month, South Korea also shut down the last joint economic project with the North, a factory park in the North Korean town of Kaesong.
上个月，韩国还关闭了与朝鲜在开城工厂园区的最后一个联合经济项目。