MIRYANG, South Korea — The traditional farming villages within Miryang city, like so many in South Korea, are nestled against forested mountains. Rice paddies spill out into the valley, and persimmon and apple orchards line the roads.
韩国密阳——与韩国的许多城市一样，密阳城范围内的传统小村坐落在树木繁茂的群山之间。稻田在山谷里绵延，道路两旁是种满了柿子树和苹果树的果园。
Wooden farmhouses with their tile roofs were replaced long ago with concrete homes, but the rituals of a more ancient Korea remain. The farmers plan their lives around the growing seasons, and when they die, they are buried in plots that dot the mountainsides.
瓦片屋顶的木制农舍早就被水泥房子取代，但是古代高丽的种种习俗仍然存在。种田是农民们生活的核心，在他们死后，他们的尸体会被埋在山坡上的小块土地里。
Now, a more modern Korea — in the form of imposing electrical power lines — is encroaching on the villages, including their burial grounds. The villages lie in the path of a major transmission route expected to distribute nuclear-generated electricity. Already towers are built along the spines of some nearby mountains, and 50 more are scheduled to be built in Miryang, some of them in the mountains.
如今，现代的韩国——以壮观的输电线为表现形式——正在蚕食着这些村子，包括村民们的墓地。这些村子正好位于一条预计将配送核电的大型输电线路上。附近的一些山脊上已经建起了输电塔，在密阳计划还会再建立50座这样的输电塔，其中有一些建在山上。
But not if some of the villagers have anything to say about it. For the past two years, the villagers have staged protests that included a rare self-immolation, demonstrations in Seoul and a two-year sleep-in by older women who have built tiny tents on the tops of mountains atop the plots the utility company cleared for some of the towers. The women take breaks to go back to their homes, but most of the women sleep there in rotations, warmed in the winter by kerosene heaters. They fly Korean flags from their plastic-covered shelters.
但是，这里的一些村民却不答应。过去两年，村民们举行了多次抗议活动，包括一次出人意料的自焚事件，以及在首尔举行的多次示威活动。还有一群老年妇女在电力公司清理出来建电塔的山顶地块上搭起了小小的帐篷，并且一住就是两年。这些妇女偶尔会回家，但是大多数会轮流睡在那里，冬天靠煤油暖气来取暖。覆盖着塑料布的帐篷上还挂着韩国国旗。
“My family has lived here for 500 years, and all our ancestors are buried in these mountains,” said Sohn Hee-kyong, a 78-year-old rice farmer whose husband’s grave is nearby and who stays in the encampment. “I can’t let those steel monstrosities pass over here. Over my dead body.”
78岁的水稻种植者孙熙静（Sohn Hee-kyong，音译）是住在帐篷里的抗议者之一，她丈夫的坟墓就在附近。她说，“我们家族已经在这里居住500年了，我所有的祖先都葬在这些山里。我不能让这些丑陋的铁家伙从这里通过。除非我死了。”
The villagers’ standoff against the $166 billion state utility, the Korea Electric Power Corporation, or Kepco, has become a closely watched national news story; some news media report it in forensic detail, marking each time the company manages to place another tower — usually after it has paid enough compensation to nearby property owners to win their support. The story has grabbed headlines not only because it is a potent symbol of South Korea’s perennial struggle to reconcile its traditions with its hard-charging modern incarnation. The face-off has also made news because of a growing battle in South Korea over nuclear power.
村民们与市值1660亿美元（约合1万亿元人民币）的国有公用事业企业韩国电力公司（Korea Electric Power Corporation，简称韩电）的对峙已经成为新闻事件，受到了全国的密切关注；一些新闻媒体的报道十分详细，记录了公司建下每座输电塔的情形——通常是在向附近的业主支付了足够赔偿，从而赢得他们的支持之后。在韩国，传统和野心勃勃的现代形成鲜明的矛盾，如何平衡两者是一个永恒的话题，而这一事件恰恰是这种矛盾的一个最好体现。但这种对峙受到关注不仅于此，也因为在核电问题上，韩国正在上演一场日益激烈的战争。
Support for nuclear power has been waning since the 2011 Fukushima disaster in Japan and after a series of scandals in South Korea revealed that plants nationwide included many parts whose safety-test results were faked.
自从2011年日本福岛核事故以来，也在韩国披露出一系列丑闻后，人们对核电的支持越来越少。据披露，韩国各地电厂使用的许多部件，其安全检测报告都做了假。
The villagers have become increasingly desperate to stop the transmission project. But the scandals have also made Kepco a bit desperate to move the project along. The nuclear plant that is expected to be hooked up to the new transmission line is an important test case for the now-sullied industry and the government, which have been counting on making nuclear plants a lucrative export. Two of the reactors at the plant are of a model that South Korea hopes will be a big seller.
村民们越发孤注一掷地想要阻止这个输电项目。但也正是因为这些丑闻，韩电也迫不及待地想要把这个项目推行下去。预计将与新的传输线路相连的核电站，将是对这个名誉受损的行业，以及指望从核电站出口获利的韩国政府的重要考验。这座电站中有两个反应堆属于同一种型号，韩国希望这能成为畅销产品。
Miryang is 174 miles southeast of Seoul, and a world apart. Compared with Seoul’s bustle, the villages that together house about 110,000 people are sleepy. Many of the young people have moved to South Korea’s increasingly wealthy cities. Some roads are so quiet that villagers dry their grains on them after the harvest.
密阳位于首尔东南方向174英里（约合280公里），与首尔像是两个世界。与繁华的首尔相比，这些寂静的村子总共只有约11万人口。许多年轻人已经搬到了韩国日益富裕的一些城市。一些道路少人经过，一些村民甚至在收割后在上面晾晒稻谷。
Their fight with the national utility began in 2007, when Kepco began building the 56-mile overhead power line to be strung from 161 towers linking Gori, one of South Korea’s largest nuclear complexes, in an area straddling the border between Busan and Ulsan in the southeast, to a substation to the northwest.
他们与这家国有电力公司的战争开始于2007年，当时，韩电开始建造56英里的高架电线，这些电线将由161座输电塔架起，连接了韩国一个最大的核电项目古里(Gori)和西北方向的一个变电所，其间跨越了釜山和东南部蔚山的边界。
At first, people here feared perceived health threats from the lines expected to carry 765,000 volts, and sharp drops in real-estate prices as the massive towers dotted mainly pristine mountains or passed near their villages. (Since farmers sometimes borrow against their homes and rice paddies to get loans they pay back after harvests, the value of their land is especially important.)
这里的人们起初担心电线对健康的威胁，这些电线预计将承载76.5万伏高压，他们还担心房价会大跌，因为巨大的铁塔主要会分布在未经开发的山脉上，或是从他们村子附近经过。（因为农民们有时以房屋和稻田做抵押申请贷款，收获之后再还贷，因此土地的价值非常重要。）
They also worried about their burial sites; as in much of rural South Korea, worshiping ancestors is common here and protecting graves from anything deemed an impurity is a paramount duty for the living.
他们还担心他们的墓地；与韩国农村的大部分地区一样，祭拜祖先的传统在这里很普遍，保护墓地不被亵渎是活着的人的最大职责。
The fight intensified last year, when a 74-year-old farmer named Lee Chi-woo poured gasoline on his body and set himself on fire in Bora, one of the Miryang villages. Earlier that day, Kepco workers had begun building a tower on a rice paddy owned by Mr. Lee and his brothers while security guards pushed the protesting brothers off the site, confiscated against their will and at prices much lower than they wanted.
这场冲突去年加剧，当时，74岁的农民李智宇（Lee Chi-woo，音译）在密阳的村子博拉，把汽油浇在自己身上点了火。当天早些时候，韩电的工人们开始在李智宇和他的兄弟们所拥有的一块稻田上修建输电塔，保安把前来抗议的这些弟兄推出了现场。韩电强征了这块地，赔偿价格比他们的期望低很多。
With Mr. Lee’s suicide, more older villagers took to the hills, building huts at sites where Kepco planned to build the transmission towers, some as tall as 40-story buildings. Antinuclear activists poured into the villages by the busload, to support the villages and to bolster their own cause.
李智宇自杀之后，许多老年村民来到了山上，在韩电打算建造传输铁塔的地方搭起小棚子。这些传输塔中的一些有40层楼那么高。反核活动人士乘坐一辆辆巴士涌入村里，既是为了声援村民，也是为了他们自己的事业。
As some people and villages in Miryang accepted Kepco’s compensation packages, resentment grew on both sides. Kepco and the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy said the older protesters were impeding an important national project. Pro-government residents put up roadside banners denouncing outsiders for bringing antinuclear activism here and urging the villagers to “cooperate with the management of businesses and the state.” Competing banners scream “No to nuclear power!”
由于密阳的一些人以及一些村子接受了韩电的赔偿方案，双方的不满都在增长。韩电和韩国产业通商资源部(Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy)说，老年抗议者正在阻挠一个重要的国家项目。支持政府的居民在路旁张贴了标语，谴责外人把反核活动主义带进村里，敦促村民“与企业的管理人员及政府合作”。另一派的标语则写道，“对核电说不！”
Rival neighbors within villages have stopped talking to one another, and some have had shoving matches that led to lawsuits.
村子里持不同意见的邻居们已经不再和对方说话，有些人发生了冲撞，还打了官司。
About a dozen of the Miryang villages are now the last holdouts. Of the 56-mile transmission line, Kepco has completed all but the 19-mile section that is supposed to pass through the villages and the nearby mountains.
密阳大约有十几个村子现在仍然拒不合作。在56英里的传输线路上，韩电就差这19英里的一段没有完成，按规划，这段电线会从这些村子和附近的山上经过。
During months of unsuccessful negotiations this year, villagers demanded that Kepco reroute the power line, bury it underground or lower the voltage of electricity it is expected to carry. The utility called the alternatives unfeasible and resumed construction in early October, starting with villages where it had earlier reached deals with residents.
今年进行的数月谈判都没有结果，村民们要求韩电重新规划线路，把电线埋在地下，或者降低电线承载的电压。公司说这些替代方案都不可行，并于10月初恢复了施工，从早些时候达成协议的村子开始。
Some Miryang residents have tried to block the trucks rumbling up nearby mountains to lay concrete for more towers, but the police have held the people back. Frustrated old women now resort to waving their canes at the passing trucks and launching tirades against police officers their grandchildren’s age. Some have tried to throw themselves in front of the trucks.
密阳的一些居民试图在附近的山上拦截为电塔建设运送水泥的卡车，但被警方阻止。百般无奈的老妇人现在只能对着驶过的卡车挥舞拐杖，跟那些与她们的孙子年龄相仿的警察理论。有些人企图冲到路中间去拦车。
Down the mountain from Ms. Sohn’s tent camp, where the forest has turned into an autumn tapestry, male villagers have begun standing guard. (Ms. Sohn, one of the women who lives at the encampment, calls the men, in their 60s, the “young ones.”)
孙熙静的营地所在的山上，森林里已经呈现秋天的景象，男村民们开始站岗放哨。（住在帐篷里的孙熙静把这些60多岁的男子叫做“年轻人”。）
On a recent day, the men stood behind ropes tied across the path leading to the outpost, smoking cigarettes and watching for construction workers they feared would come at any time. Three nooses dangled from nearby pine trees. “To hang them or be hanged,” the men said.
近日，这些男子用绳子拦住了通向工地的路，他们站在绳子后面，吸着烟，看是否有建筑工人出现。附近的松树上悬着三个绞索。男人们说，“要么吊死他们，要么吊死我们。”
The women have also taken a fatalistic turn, building trenches in front of their tents they say will serve as their own grave sites if the authorities try to remove them. Ms. Sohn said she recently tried to prepare her children for the worst.
女人们也已经不再指望有什么好结果，她们在帐篷前挖了战壕，说如果当局要赶她们走，这些就是她们的坟墓。孙熙静说，她最近已经为自己的孩子们做了最坏的打算。
“When they called me the other day, I said I will die fighting,” she said. “That way, I would be less ashamed when I met my dead ancestors.”
她说，“前几天他们给我打电话时，我说我死扛下去。那样的话，当我见到死去的祖先时，我的愧疚会少一点。”