SEOUL, South Korea — Prime Minister Chung Hong-won, the No. 2 official in the South Korean government, apologized and offered to resign on Sunday, as the country remained angry and saddened over the sinking of a ferry that left 302 people, the vast majority of them high school students, dead or missing.
韩国首尔——周日，韩国政府二号人物、总理郑烘原(Chung Hong-won)表示道歉，并主动提出辞职。此前，韩国一艘渡轮沉没，共导致302人——大多数是高中生——死亡或失踪，韩国仍然对此感到愤怒和悲伤。
President Park Geun-hye quickly accepted his resignation but asked Mr. Chung to stay in his post until the government completes its rescue operations, said Min Kyung-wook, a presidential spokesman.
韩国总统发言人闵耿昱（Min Kyung-wook，音译）说，总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)迅速接受了郑烘原的辞职，但要求他留任至政府完成救援工作之时。
The government has come under fire as early investigations revealed loopholes in safety measures and lax regulatory enforcement that investigators said contributed to the sinking of the 6,825-ton ferry, the Sewol, on April 16.
早期调查显示了安全措施不完善和监管执法松懈的问题，调查人员称这些都是6825吨渡轮“世越号”(Sewol)于4月16日沉没的原因。韩国政府由此受到了强烈谴责。
It was also criticized for failing to respond quickly and efficiently to the crisis and for fumbling during the early stages of rescue operations.
人们还指责政府对危机的反应不够迅速有效，而且在救援的早期阶段手忙脚乱。
Public anger spilled onto the official website of Ms. Park’s office, where someone posted a message on Sunday to say “why you should not be the president.” The posting, which accused Ms. Park of failing to show leadership in the handling of the ferry disaster, attracted 200,000 views within 12 hours, as well as hundreds of supportive comments.
民众的怒火蔓延到了朴槿惠政府的官方网站。周日，有人在该网站发布了一条关于“你为何不该当总统”的言论。这个帖子指责朴槿惠在处理轮渡事故的过程中未能展现领导力，并在12小时内吸引了20万浏览量以及数百条支持言论。
A somber-looking Mr. Chung accepted the criticism on Sunday when he offered “an apology to the people” during a nationally televised news conference. “When I saw the people’s sadness and fury, I thought it was natural for me to step down with an apology,” he said.
周日，郑烘原在全国电视转播的新闻发布会上表情严肃地接受了批评，并且“向人民致歉”。他说，“看到人们的悲伤和愤怒，我认为自己该做的事情是道歉并下台。”
Mr. Chung is the highest-ranking government official to lose his job over the sinking, South Korea’s worst disaster since 1995, when a department store collapsed in Seoul, killing 501 people.
郑烘原是因此次沉船事故而下台的最高级政府官员。此次事故是1995年以来韩国最严重的一次事故，那一年，首尔的一家百货商场发生坍塌，共导致501人丧生。
South Koreans were especially traumatized by the fact that most of the dead and missing were students on a class trip.
尤其让韩国人痛心的是，大多数死亡和失踪人员都是参加集体出游的学生。
Many survivors reported that the crew repeatedly instructed passengers to stay inside while the ship was listing dangerously and gradually sinking off southwestern South Korea.
许多幸存者都表示，当船身严重倾斜并在韩国西南海域逐渐沉没时，船员曾反复要求乘客留在船内。
The ship’s captain, Lee Jun-seok, 69, and 14 other top members of the crew escaped the ferry in the first two coast guard ships to arrive at the scene. All of them are now under arrest on criminal charges, including accidental homicide.
69岁的船长李俊石（Lee Jun-seok，音译）和其他14名高级船员乘坐最先赶到事发地点的两艘巡逻船逃离了渡轮。目前，这些人都已因涉嫌刑事犯罪被捕，罪名包括过失杀人。
The prime minister is a largely ceremonial post in South Korea, with the executive power concentrated in the president, and is sometimes fired when the government needs to soothe public anger after a major scandal or policy failure.
韩国的行政权集中在总统身上，总理在很大程度上只是一个礼节性职位。出现重大丑闻或政策失误之后，政府有时会通过罢免总理来平息公众的怒火。
Ms. Park’s tumultuous first year in office has been rocked by scandals in domestic politics, as well as unusually high tensions with North Korea following its nuclear test early last year.
朴槿惠任期的第一年很不太平，受困于国内的政治丑闻，以及去年年初朝鲜核试验后格外紧张的朝韩关系。
Under Ms. Park, the government has initiated a campaign to eliminate what it called “jongbuk,” or followers of the North Korean government, from South Korean society and its politics, asking the Constitutional Court to disband a small progressive party on charges of acting on the Communist North’s behalf. The political opposition accused Ms. Park of resorting to a Communist witch hunt — a tactic her father, the former military strongman Park Chung-hee, was accused of using — to maintain her sway over domestic politics.
在朴槿惠的领导下，政府发起了一场运动，旨在将所谓的“从北派”（jongbuk，即朝鲜政府的盲目追随者）从韩国社会和政界清除出去。政府请求宪法法院(Constitutional Court)解散一个规模较小的进步政党，罪名是为共产党执政的朝鲜充当代理人。朴槿惠的政治反对派指责称，她通过针对共产主义的捕风捉影的政治迫害——她的父亲、前军事强人朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)也曾被指采用该手段——来维持自己对国内政局的控制。
Prosecutors revealed last month that government agents fabricated evidence to build a spy case against a defector from North Korea. Separately, a former chief and senior officials at the government’s National Intelligence Service have been on trial on charges of directing an extensive online smear campaign against Ms. Park’s opponents ahead of her election in December 2012. They conducted the online campaign in the name of fighting pro-North activities on the web.
检方上月透露，政府特工捏造证据，编造了针对一名脱北者的间谍案。此外，韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)的一名前院长和多名高官正在受审，罪名在朴槿惠2012年12月当选前指挥了一场大范围的在线运动，借此抹黑朴槿惠的对手。发起这场在线运动的时候，他们用的名义就是打击网上的亲朝活动人士。
No evidence has emerged that Ms. Park was involved in any of these scandals.
尚无证据表明朴槿惠与这些丑闻中的任何一起有关。
“It’s utterly irresponsible and cowardly” for the prime minister to step down in the middle of the rescue operation, Ahn Cheol-soo, a top leader of the main opposition party, New Politics Alliance for Democracy, said during a news conference on Sunday.
主要反对党新民主政治联盟(New Politics Alliance for Democracy)的高层领导安哲秀(Ahn Cheol-soo)在周日的新闻发布会上说，总理在搜救行动尚在进行时下台“是极其不负责任的懦夫行为”。
Before firing Mr. Chung, Ms. Park herself should offer an apology, Mr. Ahn said.
安哲秀说，在免除郑烘原的职务之前，朴槿惠自己也应该道歉。
When she took office in February last year, one of the first things Ms. Park did was to change the name of the old Ministry of Public Administration and Security to the Ministry of Security and Public Administration. By putting “security” up front, Ms. Park was stressing that her government was dedicated to securing the safety of the people, officials said at the time.
去年2月上台后，朴槿惠首先采取的措施之一是将原来的行政安全部(Ministry of Public Administration and Security)改名为安全行政部(Ministry of Security and Public Administration)。当时有一些官员表示，朴槿惠将“安全”提前，目的是强调她领导的政府致力于保护人民的安全。
As of Sunday morning, 115 ferry passengers remained missing. The number of the survivors, 174, has not changed for the past 11 days.
截至周日上午，尚有115名渡轮乘客失踪。过去11天里，幸存者人数一直维持在174人。
The official death toll was at 187 on Sunday.
周日，官方公布的遇难者人数为187人。