SEOUL, South Korea — A week after North Korea conducted its fourth nuclear test, President Park Geun-hye of South Korea urged China on Wednesday to do more to rein in the North, amid growing criticism that Ms. Park’s policy of building stronger ties with Beijing was not showing results.
韩国首尔——朝鲜进行第四次核试验一周后，韩国总统朴槿惠周三呼吁中国在约束平壤方面多做点工作，而韩国国内对朴槿惠的批评之声越来越大，有人认为她与北京建立更牢固关系的政策未见成效。
“China has repeatedly said publicly that it would not tolerate North Korea’s nuclear weapons,” Ms. Park said during a nationally televised speech. “I think China is fully aware that if such strong will is not matched by necessary measures, we cannot prevent fifth and sixth nuclear tests by the North or guarantee real peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula.”
“中国已多次公开表示，不会容忍朝鲜发展核武器，”朴槿惠在发表全国电视讲话时说。“我认为，中国充分认识到，如果这种强烈意愿没有必要的措施相配合，我们就不能阻止朝鲜进行第五次、第六次核试验，也不能保证朝鲜半岛的真正和平与稳定。”
China joined much of the world in condemning the nuclear test last week. On Wednesday, a senior United States negotiator repeated Washington’s call for China to put more pressure on North Korea, using the leverage it has as the impoverished country’s sole major ally and leading trade partner.
中国上周与世界大部分国家一起谴责了朝鲜的核试验。周三，一名美国高级谈判代表重复了华盛顿的呼吁，希望中国利用其作为该贫穷国家唯一的主要盟友及主要贸易伙伴的杠杆作用，对朝鲜施加更大的压力。
“I hope the Chinese authorities agree with us that we simply cannot take a business-as-usual approach to this latest provocation,” said Sung Kim, the special American representative for North Korea policy, after meeting his South Korean and Japanese counterparts in Seoul to discuss sanctions. “I think the Chinese will agree with us that the only way to send a clear message to Pyongyang is to adopt strong international measures.”
“我希望中国当局同意我们的观点，对这一最新挑衅不再采取一切照旧的做法，”美国对朝政策特别代表金成(Sung Kim)说，他在讲这番话前，在首尔与韩国和日本同行讨论了制裁问题。“我觉得，中国会同意我们的看法，那就是，采取强有力的国际措施是向平壤发出明确信息的唯一途径。”
North Korea said its test was of a hydrogen bomb, a far more powerful weapon than the nuclear devices it has tested before, but that claim has been greeted with widespread skepticism. Still, the test has underlined South Korea’s geopolitical challenges and exposed Ms. Park’s China policy to more critical scrutiny at home.
朝鲜宣布其测试的是氢弹，比该国以前测试过的核武器强大得多，但这一说法受到广泛的质疑。尽管如此，此次核试验突显了韩国所面临的地缘政治挑战，让朴槿惠的中国政策在国内受到更严格的审议。
In recent days, some lawmakers in Ms. Park’s party have said that South Korea must consider developing nuclear arms itself, contending that neither China nor the United States was able or willing to stop the North’s weapons program.
近日来，朴槿惠所在党的一些议员表示，韩国必须考虑发展自己的核武器，理由是无论中国还是美国都不能或不愿意停止朝鲜的核武器计划。
Ms. Park said on Wednesday that she understood that point of view but that South Korea remained committed to nuclear nonproliferation. She said that the United Nations Security Council needed to adopt a new round of sanctions “strong enough to change North Korea’s attitude.”
朴槿惠周三表示，虽然她理解上述观点，但韩国仍坚持致力于防止核扩散。她说，联合国安理会需要采取新一轮“足以改变朝鲜态度的强大”制裁措施。
“China’s role is important in the process,” she said. “I trust that China, as a permanent member of the Security Council, will play a necessary role.”
“中国的作用在这个过程中很重要，”她说。“我相信，中国作为安理会常任理事国，将起到必要的作用。”
Since taking office in early 2013, Ms. Park has worked to build closer ties with Beijing, meeting with President Xi Jinping more often than with any other foreign leader. China is by far South Korea’s largest trading partner, and policy makers in Seoul said that a closer diplomatic relationship would make China more receptive to appeals to put more pressure on the North.
自从在2013年初上任以来，朴槿惠一直致力于与北京建立更密切的关系，她与习近平见面的次数比与任何其他外国领导人都频繁。中国是韩国最大的贸易伙伴，韩国与中国的双边贸易远高于与其他国家的。首尔的政策制定者称，与中国更紧密的外交关系会让中国更容易接受向朝鲜施加更大压力的呼吁。
A signature moment for that strategy came in the fall, when Ms. Park stood beside Mr. Xi on a podium in Beijing watching a huge military parade — the only leader of a significant American ally to attend Chinese ceremonies for the 70th anniversary of World War II’s end. Detractors in South Korea said she was endangering the country’s alliance with Washington, but aides to Ms. Park said it was to South Korea’s advantage to be friendly with both powers.
这种外交战略的标志性时刻出现在去年秋天，当时朴槿惠与习近平一起站在北京一个观礼台上，观看了一场巨大的阅兵仪式，她是美国主要盟友中唯一一位出席了中国纪念二次世界大战结束70周年活动的领袖。韩国的批评者说，她的做法危及了该国与华盛顿的结盟，但朴槿惠的助手说，与中美两个大国都保持友好关系对韩国有利。
But since the North’s latest nuclear test, even some South Korean newspapers generally supportive of the conservative president have argued in editorials that the courtship had done little to tame North Korea.
但是，自从朝鲜最近这次核试验以来，就连韩国的几家通常支持这位保守派总统的报纸也发表社会指出，讨好中国基本上未能达到遏制朝鲜的效果。
South Korean officials have described top Chinese leaders as largely unresponsive to attempts to discuss North Korea in recent days. China and South Korea established a military hotline last year with much fanfare, but the South Korean defense minister has been unable to get his Chinese counterpart on the line to discuss the North’s nuclear test, according to the Defense Ministry.
韩国官员描述说，中国最高领导人对近日来寻求与他们讨论朝鲜问题的尝试，在很大程度上没有反应。虽然中国与韩国去年高调开通了军事热线，但据韩国国防部表示，该国国防部长一直未能与其中国同行打通电话，来讨论朝鲜的核试验。
Ms. Park has tried and failed to arrange a telephone conversation with Mr. Xi since the nuclear test, despite having spoken with President Obama and Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, soon after. South Korea’s foreign minister, Yun Byung-se, spoke with his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, for 70 minutes on Friday, seeking China’s support for “resolute sanctions,” but Mr. Wang stuck to Beijing’s longstanding insistence that denuclearization and stability in Korea must be achieved only through “dialogue,” South Korean officials said. 
自从核试验发生后，朴槿惠曾尝试与习近平安排一次电话交谈，但未能成功，虽然她在核试验发生后不久，就与美国总统奥巴马及日本首相安倍晋三通了电话。韩国外长尹炳世上周五与中国外长王毅交谈了70分钟，寻求中国对“坚决制裁”的支持，但韩国官员说，王毅坚持了北京长期以来的观点，既朝鲜半岛的无核化和稳定只有通过“对话”才能实现。
China has also indirectly criticized South Korean and American responses to the nuclear test: Seoul’s resumption of propaganda broadcasts at the inter-Korean border and a flyover near North Korea by an American nuclear-capable B-52 long-range bomber, which the Americans described as a show of strength. China called for “calm” and “prudence.”
中国还间接地批评了韩国和美国对核试验的响应：首尔恢复了在朝韩边境的宣传广播，美国派了一架B-52远程轰炸机从离朝鲜不远的地方飞过，美国人把其描述实力的展示。中国则呼吁“冷静”与“谨慎”。
Last week, after Secretary of State John Kerry said that China had not done enough to restrain the North, Chinese officials suggested that the Americans, not the Chinese, were largely to blame for the North’s nuclear program.
上周，美国国务卿约翰·克里说，中国在约束朝鲜上做得不够，中国官员则暗示，朝鲜的核计划在很大程度上要归咎于美国，而不是中国。
Many analysts say China would prefer to keep a nuclear-armed North Korea on its border as a buffer against a United States ally hosting thousands of American troops, rather than force the North to denuclearize and perhaps risk a collapse of the government. But Ms. Park said on Wednesday that she still counted on Beijing’s cooperation.
许多分析人士表示，中国宁愿在其边境上维持一个拥有核武器的朝鲜，作为对驻扎着成千上万美军的美国盟国的缓冲，而不愿意迫使朝鲜进行非核化，从而可能冒下导致朝鲜政府崩溃的风险。但朴槿惠周三表示，她仍指望北京的合作。
“The best partner is one who holds your hand at a time of difficulty and need,” she said. 
“最好的伙伴是在困难和有需求的时候，能与你携手的伙伴，”她说。
Also Wednesday, South Korean troops fired warning shots at what appeared to be a North Korean drone crossing the heavily armed inter-Korean buffer zone, according to the South Korean military’s Office of Joint Chiefs of Staff. The object flew back to the North, the office said in a statement.
同在周三，韩国军队向一架看似飞跃了朝韩边境戒备森严的非军事区的朝鲜无人机鸣枪示警，韩军参谋长联席会议办公室表示。该办公室在一份声明中说，飞行器返回了朝鲜。
The office also said that South Korean soldiers in towns near the border had found propaganda leaflets believed to have been sent from the North by balloon. The leaflets criticized the South’s propaganda broadcasts and vowed to “squash Park Geun-hye and her clique like rabid dogs.”
该办公室还表示，韩国士兵在边境附近的村镇发现了据信是朝鲜用气球发送过来的传单。传单批评了韩国的宣传广播，并誓言要“粉碎朴槿惠及其疯狗集团。”
Leaflets used to be a favorite tool of psychological warfare that both Koreas used during the Cold War. Some anti-North Korean activists in the South use balloons to send leaflets carrying lurid criticism of the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, over the border.
传单曾是冷战期间的朝鲜和韩国最喜欢用的心理战工具。韩国的一些反朝鲜积极分子，把批评朝鲜领导人金正恩的耸人听闻的传单，用气球发送到边境的另一边。
At the same time, North Korea’s main newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, reported that Mr. Kim had given medals to scientists involved in the latest nuclear test, calling them “heroes” and “patriots” who had helped make the country a “world-class military power.”
也在周三，朝鲜主要报纸《劳动新闻》报道说，金正恩向参与最近这次核试验的科学家颁发了奖章，称他们是帮助国家成为“世界一流军事强国”的“英雄”和“爱国者”。
He warned that “fiery clouds of nuclear war” were approaching the Korean Peninsula as the United States and its allies mustered international support for more sanctions, according to the state-run newspaper. “We must further strengthen our nuclear military capabilities both in quality and quantity so that we can launch a nuclear attack at the imperialist forces, including their chieftain the United States, when they attempt provocations that harm and threaten our sovereignty,” Mr. Kim was quoted as saying.
据该官方报纸报道，金正恩警告说，美国及其盟国在为制裁寻求更多的国际支持，在朝鲜半岛“布下核战争的乌云”。报道援引金正恩的话说，“要从质和量两方面进一步加强核武装力量，一旦敌人侵犯朝鲜主权，随时随地给以美国为首的帝国主义势力发起核攻击。”