SEOUL, South Korea — The North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, whose prolonged absence from public view aroused rumors that he was ill or deposed, or both, was recovering from surgery on his left foot, South Korea’s intelligence agency told lawmakers on Tuesday.
韩国首尔——韩国情报机构周二告诉国会议员，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的左脚接受了手术治疗，正在恢复当中。此前，金正恩曾长时间消失于公众视野，引发了关于他生病或已被推翻，抑或两者同时发生的传闻。
North Korea’s state news media did not report any public appearances by Mr. Kim for almost six weeks until Oct. 14, when he was shown visiting a housing project in Pyongyang, walking with a cane. The North Korean accounts have not explained the reason for his absence.
朝鲜官方媒体在近六周时间里，没有报道金正恩公开露面的消息。直到10月14日，媒体才发布了金正恩视察平壤的一个住宅项目、拄着拐杖行走的画面。朝鲜方面没有解释金正恩消失于公众视野的原因。
The South Korean information about Mr. Kim’s foot was disclosed during a closed parliamentary audit of the National Intelligence Service, the South Korean spy agency.
韩国方面有关金正恩脚部手术的消息，是国会在对韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)进行闭门审计期间披露的。国家情报院是韩国的间谍机构。
Its representatives told lawmakers that Mr. Kim, who has appeared to be gaining weight, had undergone surgery for tarsal tunnel syndrome, a painful foot condition caused by the compression of a nerve, according to two lawmakers who briefed reporters on what they were told. One suggested that Mr. Kim’s weight might re-aggravate the problem.
两名议员向记者介绍了他们得知的情况。他们说，情报院代表告诉议员，似乎一直在发胖的金正恩，接受了踝管综合征的手术。这是一种引发疼痛的足部疾病，发病原因是神经受到了压迫。其中一名议员表示，金正恩的体重可能会加重足部的问题。
The intelligence agency did not disclose how it had obtained the information, but added that a European expert had operated on Mr. Kim, the lawmakers said.
这两名议员称，尽管没有披露是如何取得上述情报的，但情报院表示，对金正恩实施手术的是一名欧洲专家。
North Korea has maintained a long relationship with a small group of French doctors who have treated visiting members of the top North Korean elite or have been flown to the capital, Pyongyang, to treat them, including Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il, who died in 2011 after having a stroke.
朝鲜和一小群法国医生维持着长期的关系。这些医生或是为访问法国的朝鲜精英阶层进行治疗，或是被用飞机接到朝鲜首都平壤，为那些人治病，其中包括金正恩的父亲金正日。金正日(Kim Jong-il)中风后于2011年去世。
The National Intelligence Service declined to confirm details of the briefing given by the two lawmakers, Lee Cheol-woo, who is affiliated with the governing Saenuri Party, and Shin Kyong-min, of the main opposition New Politics Alliance for Democracy.
韩国国家情报院拒绝证实上述细节。透露这些情况的两名议员分别是来自执政党新国家党(Saenuri Party)的李喆雨(Lee Cheol-woo)，和来自主要反对党新政治民主联合(New Politics Alliance for Democracy)的辛京珉(Shin Kyong-min)。
Mr. Lee and Mr. Shin were designated by the National Assembly’s intelligence committee to brief journalists on some of its closed meetings.
李喆雨和辛京珉受韩国国会(National Assembly)下属的情报委员会指派，向记者介绍了部分闭门会议的情况。
“Given his obesity and excessive activities, the trouble could recur despite the surgery,” said Mr. Lee, referring to the North Korean leader’s frequent visits to construction sites, factories and military units.
“尽管做了手术，但考虑到他比较肥胖且活动过多，病情可能会复发，”李喆雨说。他指的是朝鲜领导人频频视察建筑工地、工厂和部队。