SEOUL, South Korea — Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, plans to formally announce his willingness to denuclearize his country when he meets with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea this month, an official from the South said on Tuesday.
韩国首尔——一名韩国官员周二表示，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)计划在本月与韩国总统文在寅(Moon jae-in)会晤时正式宣布朝鲜无核化的意愿。
The statement is expected to be part of a joint declaration that the two leaders will adopt when they meet on April 27, said Mr. Moon’s chief of staff, Im Jong-seok. Negotiators from both Koreas have agreed on a rough framework for the joint declaration, he said.
文在寅的秘书室长任钟皙(Im Jong-seok)称，金正恩的声明预计会作为双方4月27日会面时通过的联合声明的一部分。他说，双方的谈判代表已就联合声明的大致框架达成一致。
They are still discussing other aspects of the joint statement, such as whether the two Koreas would commit to holding summit meetings on a regular basis, Mr. Im said. South Korea is also trying to convince North Korea that Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim should hold a joint news conference at the end of their meeting in Panmunjom, the so-called truce village on the inter-Korean border.
任钟皙说，他们还在讨论联合声明的其他方面，比如两国是否承诺定期举行首脑会议。韩国还试图说服朝鲜，文在寅和金正恩应该在会谈结束时举行联合新闻发布会。会谈将在两国边境的停战村板门店举行。
If necessary, Mr. Moon’s national security adviser, Chung Eui-yong, and his spy chief, Suh Hoon, will visit the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, again to resolve any significant issues before the summit meeting, Mr. Im said.
任钟皙说，如果有必要，文在寅的国家安全顾问郑义荣(Chung Eui-yong)和情报事务主管徐薰(Suh Hoon)会在会谈前再次访问朝鲜首都平壤，解决重大问题。
When Mr. Chung and Mr. Suh visited Mr. Kim last month as Mr. Moon’s special envoys, Mr. Kim told them he would be willing to discuss giving up nuclear weapons if his government no longer felt threatened militarily and its security was guaranteed.
郑义荣和徐薰上月以文在寅特使的身份同金正恩会面时，金正恩对他们表示，如果他的政府不再感到面临军事威胁，并且安全有保障，他愿意讨论放弃核武器。
“Although the special envoys have already confirmed a willingness to denuclearize, it will make a difference if the two heads of state will meet and more clearly confirm it and make it a formal statement,” Mr. Im told reporters on Tuesday.
“尽管特使已经证实了朝方的无核化意愿，但如果两国元首会面，更明确地加以证实并使之成为正式声明，将意义重大，”任钟皙周二对记者说。
More talks are needed to determine how specific the declaration would be about denuclearization, said Mr. Im, who is in charge of South Korean officials preparing for the summit meeting. But he said the joint statement would be broad and fairly “abstract,” because any substantial deal on the North’s nuclear weapons must be struck between Mr. Kim and President Trump.
他说，还需要进行更多商讨，才能确定无核化宣言的具体程度。任钟皙目前是负责筹备此次首脑会议的韩方官员。但他表示，联合声明将是宽泛的，相当“抽象”，因为有关朝鲜核武器的任何实质性协议都必须在金正恩和特朗普总统之间达成。
Mr. Trump has said he plans to meet with Mr. Kim in May or early June to try to persuade him to dismantle his nuclear weapons program. Mr. Moon, whose envoys brought Mr. Trump the message that Mr. Kim wanted to talk, has tried to be a mediator between the American and North Korean leaders, viewing his own meeting with Mr. Kim as laying the groundwork for the more important one to follow.
特朗普表示他计划在5月或6月初与金正恩会面，以便努力说服后者放弃核武器计划。文在寅的特使给特朗普带去了金正恩希望会面的消息。文在寅试图充当朝美领导人之间的调解人，认为自己与金正恩的会晤会为接下来更重要的会谈奠定基础。
North Korean and United States officials have also been holding talks in preparation for their leaders’ meeting, during which American officials have said the North reaffirmed a willingness to discuss denuclearization. But it is still unclear what Mr. Kim would seek in return for abandoning nuclear arms, and whether those demands would be acceptable to Washington.
朝美两国的官员也一直在进行商谈，为双方领导人的会面做准备。美国官员称，朝方在商谈期间重申愿意讨论无核化。但目前尚不清楚金正恩会要求用什么作为其放弃核武器的回报，以及华盛顿是否能接受这些要求。
Some American hard-liners reject such an approach, saying that the North has no real intention of giving up nuclear weapons and is only seeking relief from sanctions. John R. Bolton made that argument before Mr. Trump chose him last month as national security adviser.
美国的一些强硬派反对这种方式，称朝鲜并没有真的放弃核武器的打算，只是在寻求减轻制裁。在上月被特朗普任命为国家安全顾问之前，约翰·R·博尔顿(John R. Bolton)就提出了这个观点。
According to South Korean officials and analysts, Mr. Moon hopes for a “comprehensive deal,” in which Mr. Kim commits to dismantling his nuclear arsenal and Mr. Trump reciprocates with security guarantees for the North, including normalized ties and a peace treaty with Washington.
韩国官员和分析人士称，文在寅希望达成一项金正恩承诺拆除核武库，特朗普则报以安全保障，包括关系正常化和与华盛顿签订和平条约的“全面协议”。
“When our special envoys visited Pyongyang, the mood was not bad, and we understand that the North Koreans and the Americans are both engaged in sincere discussions, so we are optimistic about the inter-Korean summit,” Mr. Im said. “But we could face obstacles any time.”
“我方特使访问平壤时，气氛不错，而且我们知道朝鲜和美国正在进行真诚的商讨，因此我们对韩朝首脑会谈持乐观态度，”任钟皙说。“但我们随时都可能面临障碍。”