HONG KONG — South Korea said Tuesday that it would not undo a 2015 agreement with Japan to shelve a longtime dispute over women who were forced into sexual slavery for the Japanese military during World War II.
香港——韩国周二表示，不会退出与日本在2015年达成的一项协议，该协议解决了两国关于第二次世界大战期间被迫为日本军队充当性奴的女子的长期争议。
The agreement has been criticized in South Korea, where many people don’t believe Japan has fully made amends for its wartime legacy.
这项协议曾在韩国遭到批评，许多韩国人认为，日本尚未对其在战争期间的罪行做出彻底的悔过。
Under the 2015 accord, Japan apologized and promised to pay $8.8 million for care for survivors. The deal was reached by the government of President Park Geun-hye, who was impeached in 2016 after months of turmoil and street protests. She was formally removed from office in March 2017 and is now facing charges of corruption and abuse of power.
据这份2015年的协议，日本表示道歉，并承诺为幸存的妇女提供1亿日元（880万美元）的照料费。协议是朴槿惠总统的政府达成的。2016年，在经过几个月的动荡和街头抗议之后，朴槿惠遭弹劾。2017年3月，她被正式罢免总统职务，目前正面临腐败和权力滥用的指控。
A panel appointed by the government of her successor, President Moon Jae-in, found the government had failed to represent the victims fully when it reached the deal by not having Japan take “legal” responsibility and provide official reparations.
由她的继任者文在寅总统任命的一个委员会发现，韩国政府与日本达成协议时，未能充分代表受害者，因为韩国没有要求日本承担“法律”责任，并做出正式赔偿。
That created an opportunity for Mr. Moon to back out of the agreement, but at the risk of upending South Korea’s relationship with Japan at a time when the countries are united in confronting North Korea over its weapons programs. The United States, the biggest ally of South Korea and Japan, had praised the 2015 agreement, saying cooperation between the two major Asian democracies was important for regional stability.
这为文在寅退出协议提供了一个机会，但退出协议有可能会在两国团结一致应对朝鲜核武器项目的时候，导致韩国与日本的关系出现问题。韩国和日本的最大盟友美国曾对2015年的协议表示赞赏，称日韩这两个亚洲主要民主国家之间的合作对区域稳定至关重要。
Under the “final and irreversible” settlement over the sex slaves, Japan was to make an apology in addition to providing the money for the survivors’ care. South Korea in turn pledged to not criticize Japan over the issue.
在这项就性奴问题而达成的“最终且不可逆的”解决方案之下，日本除了为照料幸存者提供资金外，还要进行道歉。韩国则承诺在这个问题上不再批评日本。
South Korea’s foreign minister, Kang Kyung-wha, said Tuesday that the 2015 agreement could not be considered “a genuine resolution” of the issue. But she added that there was no denying an official deal had been made and said Seoul wouldn’t push to renegotiate it. South Korea will set aside its own $8.8 million fund to care for the survivors, and continue discussions on what to do with the equivalent amount from Japan, Ms. Kang said.
韩国外交部长康京和(Kang Kyung-wha)周二表示，2015年的协议不能被认为是这个问题的“真正解决方案”。但她补充说，不可否认已就这个问题达成了官方协议，并表示首尔不会强迫就这个问题重新进行谈判。康京和说，韩国将另行拨出自己的880万美元资金来照料幸存者，并继续讨论如何处理来自日本的等额资金的问题。
Yoshihide Suga, Japan’s chief cabinet secretary, said Tuesday that Tokyo would ask Seoul to carry out the deal under its original terms. “There is no room for any compromise on that agreement,” he said.
日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)周二表示，日本政府会要求首尔按照最初的条款执行该协议。“在这个协议上没有任何折中的余地，”他说。
The treatment of the women, known euphemistically as “comfort women,” is one of the most painful legacies of Japan’s occupation of Korea from 1910 to the end of World War II in 1945. Tens of thousands and possibly hundreds of thousands of women were compelled to work in brothels that served the Japanese military. In addition to Koreans, women from the Philippines, China and other countries invaded by Japan were forced into sexual slavery.
处理这些被委婉地称为“慰安妇”的妇女的问题，是朝鲜半岛从1910年到二战结束的1945年被日本占领期间，遗留下来的最痛苦的问题之一。数万甚至数十万的女子被迫在为日本军队服务的妓院里工作。除了韩国人和朝鲜人，还有来自菲律宾、中国和其他国家的女子也被迫沦为性奴。
In 2011, activists installed a statue honoring the women in front of the Japanese Embassy in Seoul, touching off a diplomatic furor. Since then, similar statues have been placed in other cities, including San Francisco and Hong Kong. When activists placed another in South Korea’s second largest city, Busan, in 2016, Japan temporarily recalled its ambassador from Seoul and consul general from Busan.
在2011年，活动人士在日本驻首尔大使馆前立了一个纪念这些妇女的雕像，引发了一场外交摩擦。此后，有人在包括旧金山和香港在内的世界其他城市也立了类似的雕像。2016年，活动人士在韩国第二大城市釜山立了又一个雕像之后，日本临时召回了其驻韩国的大使和驻釜山的总领事。
Seoul invited a survivor to meet President Trump during his visit to South Korea in November, which Japan criticized as not keeping with the spirit of the 2015 agreement.
特朗普总统去年11月访问韩国期间，首尔曾邀请一名幸存者与特朗普见面，日本指责该做法不符合2015年协议的精神。
The decision to maintain the deal was announced Tuesday by Ms. Kang just hours after North Korea agreed to send athletes to the Winter Olympics in South Korea next month. The meeting between representatives of North and South Korea in the Demilitarized Zone that divides the two countries was the first formal round of talks in more than two years, and helped ease tensions that had been escalating over the North’s nuclear and missile tests.
维持这项协议的决定是康京和在周二宣布的。几小时前，朝鲜同意派运动员参加下月在韩国举行的冬季奥运会。朝鲜和韩国的代表正在朝鲜半岛非军事区举行会谈，这是两年多来两国的首次正式会谈，会谈对缓和朝鲜核问题及导弹试验引起的不断升级的紧张局势有所帮助。