SEOUL, South Korea — The acting president of South Korea, Hwang Kyo-ahn, on Monday called the killing of Kim Jong-nam, the estranged half brother of North Korea’s leader, “an intolerable crime against humanity and terrorist act” masterminded by the North Korean regime.
韩国首尔——韩国代理总统黄教安周一称，杀害与朝鲜领导人关系疏远的同父异母哥哥金正男一事，是朝鲜政权策划的“不能容忍的危害人类罪行和恐怖主义行为”。
The remarks were the strongest yet by the South Korean leadership linking the North Korean government, led by Kim Jong-un, to the brazen killing of his half brother on Feb. 13 at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Malaysia.
这是韩国首脑发表的、把金正恩领导的朝鲜政府与金正恩的同父异母哥哥于2月13日在马来西亚吉隆坡国际机场被明目张胆地杀死一事联系起来的迄今最强烈的言论。
In his remarks, Mr. Hwang also urged the world to hold North Korea accountable for the killing.
黄教安在讲话中还敦促国际社会追究朝鲜杀人行为的责任。
“It starkly demonstrated the North Korean regime’s recklessness and cruelty as well as the fact that it will do anything, everything in order to maintain its power,” Mr. Hwang said during a meeting of security-related cabinet ministers on Monday. “We need to cooperate with the international community to ensure that North Korea will pay a just price for its terrorist act.”
“这种行为赤裸裸地表明了朝鲜政权的肆无忌惮和残忍，也表明朝鲜政权为了维持其权力将采取任何及所有的手段。”黄教安在周一与安全相关的内阁部长会议上说。“我们需要与国际社会合作，以确保朝鲜为其恐怖主义行为付出应有的代价。”
Mr. Hwang’s comments on Monday escalated pressure on North Korea by formally accusing Kim Jong-un’s government of carrying out a terrorist attack, which could encourage other nations, including the United States, to try to punish the government in Pyongyang.
黄教安周一的这番话，通过正式指责金正恩政府实行恐怖袭击，加大了对朝鲜的压力，并有可能鼓励包括美国在内的其他国家寻求对平壤政府采取惩罚措施。
Mr. Hwang also instructed his government to strengthen precautions and vigilance against possible North Korean terrorist attacks against the government and citizens of South Korea. He also warned that North Korea may attempt military provocations to divert international attention from Mr. Kim’s assassination.
黄教安还指示他的政府加强预防和警戒措施，防止朝鲜对韩国政府和公民发动可能的恐怖袭击。他还警告说，朝鲜可能会试图进行军事挑衅，以转移国际社会对金正男被暗杀的注意力。
Mr. Hwang’s statement came as tensions escalated Monday between North Korea and Malaysia as the police in Kuala Lumpur press on with their investigation of the killing, in which several North Korean citizens are being sought.
黄教安周一发表此番讲话时，朝鲜与马来西亚的紧张关系也在升级，随着吉隆坡警察加紧对谋杀案进行调查，他们正在寻找几名朝鲜公民。
Fuji TV in Japan posted what appeared to be airport security video of the attack on YouTube, which was later reposted by other sources.
日本的富士电视台在YouTube上发布了看似机场安全监控拍摄到的袭击场面的视频，该视频后来被其他新闻网站转发。
The North Korean ambassador to Malaysia, Kang Chol, called the Malaysian inquiry politically motivated and demanded that his government be allowed to take part. Mr. Kang also found fault with Mr. Kim’s autopsy.
朝鲜驻马来西亚大使姜哲称马来西亚的调查有政治动机，他要求马方允许朝鲜政府参与调查。姜哲还对金正男的尸检找茬。
“It has been seven days since the incident, but there is no clear evidence on the cause of death, and at the moment we cannot trust the investigation by the Malaysian police,” Mr. Kang said.
姜哲说，“事件发生已有七天了，但还没有明确证据表明死亡的原因，目前我们无法相信马来西亚警方的调查。”
The North Korean Embassy later released a statement trying to raise doubts about whether the body was that of Kim Jong-nam, faulting the Malaysian authorities for “identifying the other name alleged by the hostile foreign forces.” The statement said the deceased, whom it identified as Kim Chol, held a diplomatic passport, and it criticized the Malaysian authorities for requiring the presence of next of kin for the body to be released.
朝鲜大使馆后来发表了一项声明，试图对尸体是否是金正男的提出质疑，并指责马来西亚当局把死者身份“确认为外国敌对势力声称的那个名字”。朝鲜的声明称死者是持有外交护照的金哲(Kim Chol)，声明批评马来西亚当局提出在死者直系亲属在场的情况下释放尸体的要求。
The Malaysian Foreign Ministry said that it had summoned Mr. Kang to explain his accusation that Malaysia was “colluding” with North Korea’s enemies in its handling of Mr. Kim’s death.
马来西亚外交部表示已召见了康哲，要求他对马拉西亚在处理金正男死亡一事上与朝鲜的敌人“勾结”的指责作出解释。
Mr. Kim was apparently poisoned by a woman who grabbed him from behind at the airport and wiped his face with a cloth. He died soon after on the way to a hospital.
金正男看来是被一名女子毒死的，该女子在机场从他的身后抓住了他，并用一块布擦他的脸。不久之后，他在去医院的路上死亡。
The Malaysian police have so far arrested four people and are seeking seven others, most of them North Korean.
到目前为止，马来西亚警察已逮捕了四人，仍在寻找七人，其中大多是朝鲜人。
In its meeting with the ambassador, the Malaysian government called his accusations “baseless” and said the police were following normal procedures in the case of a death “under mysterious circumstances.”
马来西亚政府在召见朝鲜大使时称其指责“毫无根据”，并说警方正在按照正常程序调查这个“神秘情况下”的死亡案件。
Malaysia has told North Korea that it will give the body to Mr. Kim’s next of kin once the investigation is complete.
马来西亚告诉朝鲜，一旦调查完毕，将把尸体交给金正男的直系亲属。
“The Malaysian government has been transparent,” the statement said. “The Malaysian government takes very seriously any unfounded attempt to tarnish its reputation.”
“马来西亚政府一直是透明的，”声明说。 “马来西亚政府非常认真地对待任何毫无根据地沾污其声誉的企图。”
The South Korean unification minister, Hong Yong-pyo, said on Monday that eight North Koreans were involved in the case, including one who was arrested, four who were believed to have returned home, and three others who were still being sought by the Malaysian authorities.
韩国统一部长洪容杓周一表示，有八名朝鲜人参与了这起案件，其中一人已被逮捕，四人据信已回国，马来西亚当局仍在寻找另外三人。
Speaking to reporters in Seoul, Mr. Hong declined to reveal the additional information his government had that helped it determine North Korean involvement. But he said that the fact that several suspects were from North Korea was significant evidence itself. He also noted that North Korea had a history of committing terrorist attacks abroad and executing its own officials deemed a threat to the country’s leader.
在与首尔记者谈话时，洪容杓拒绝透露韩国政府拥有的、帮助确定朝鲜参与作案的额外信息。但他说，几名嫌疑人来自朝鲜的事实本身就是重要的证据。他还指出，朝鲜有在国外进行恐怖主义袭击、处死被视为对该国领导人有威胁的本国官员的历史。
“The North Korean regime depends on a reign of terror and fears to help maintain its grip on power,” Mr. Hong said about the possible motive behind Kim Jong-nam’s assassination.
“朝鲜政权靠恐怖统治和恐惧来维持其对权力的控制，”洪容杓在提到暗杀金正男的可能动机时说。
In Indonesia, Agung Sampurno, an Immigration Department spokesman, said that at least three North Korean suspects who left Malaysia in the hours after the killing on Feb. 13 arrived in Jakarta later that day. They left Jakarta at 10:20 p.m. on a flight to Dubai before they were believed to have returned to North Korea.
印度尼西亚移民局发言人阿贡·萨布尔诺(Agung Sampurno)说，至少三名朝鲜嫌犯在2月13日暗杀发生后的数小时内离开马来西亚，并于当天晚些时候抵达雅加达。他们在夜里10时20分离开雅加达，乘飞机前往迪拜，据信他们后来回到了朝鲜。