SEOUL, South Korea — When Kim Dong-shik, a South Korean pastor with permanent resident status in the United States, was abducted 15 years ago in northeastern China, his friends and family suspected North Korean involvement. The Pyongyang government loathes clergymen like Mr. Kim, who worked and proselytized among North Koreans who had fled to China.
韩国首尔——拥有美国永久居民身份的韩国牧师金东植（Kim Dong-shik，音）15年前在中国东北被绑架时，他的朋友和家人都怀疑朝鲜曾参与其中。朝鲜政府一向厌恶像金东植这样的神职人员，因为他们往往会在逃到中国的朝鲜人中开展工作，并向这些人传教。
But Mr. Kim’s family had no evidence to point to — until 2005, when a Chinese man went on trial in Seoul. That man confessed to, and was convicted of, helping to abduct Mr. Kim and at least 17 other people from China on behalf of North Korea’s secret police agency, the Ministry of State Security.
但金东植的家人没有任何证据——直到2005年，一名中国男子在首尔受审时，情况才发生改变。这名男子供认，曾代表朝鲜秘密警察机构国家安全保卫部(Ministry of State Security)，参与了把金东植和其他至少17人从中国绑架出去的活动。该名男子已被判刑。
Last week, armed in part with that evidence, Mr. Kim’s son and brother, both American citizens, won a $330 million judgment against the North Korean government in a United States court for the pastor’s abduction and presumed torture and killing.
上周，金东植的儿子和兄弟，依靠上述证据及其他因素的帮助，在美国的法庭上赢得了一场针对朝鲜政府的诉讼。因为金东植遭到了绑架，且据推定受到了折磨并被杀害，法庭判决朝鲜向金家赔偿3.3亿美元（约合20.4亿元人民币）。
North Korea, which has never admitted kidnapping Mr. Kim and refused to respond to the family’s lawsuit, is highly unlikely to pay the damages ordered on April 9 by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. But lawyers are conducting a global search for North Korean assets, like bank accounts, real estate and shares in companies, for possible confiscation, according to Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, a lawyer for the Kims and founder of Shurat HaDin, a civil rights group based in Tel Aviv that has often sued sovereign states and militant groups on behalf of terrorism and torture victims.
朝鲜从未承认绑架过金东植，也拒绝应诉，它应该不会遵照4月9日哥伦比亚特区联邦地区法院(United States District Court for the District of Columbia)做出的判决，向这家人给予赔偿。不过，金东植的律师、以色列法律中心(Shurat HaDin)的创始人尼特萨娜·达尔尚-莱特内尔(Nitsana Darshan-Leitner)表示，律师们正在全球范围内搜寻朝鲜资产，比如银行账户、房地产和公司股票，这些资产随后可能会被没收。以色列法律中心是设在特拉维夫的一个民权组织，经常代表恐怖主义和酷刑的受害者，起诉主权国家和激进组织。
“The court decision marks the first time that an American court has concluded that a foreign regime which abducts an individual who is then never heard from again has the burden of proving that he has not been murdered,” Shurat HaDin said in a news release on Monday announcing the court’s ruling.
以色列法律中心在周一宣布法院判决的新闻稿中写道，“法院的判决标志着美国法院首次认定，若外国政权绑架人员，且该人从此以后音讯全无，则该政权有责任证明该人未被谋杀。”
The lawsuit had previously been dismissed for lack of evidence that North Korea had in fact tortured and killed Mr. Kim. But an appeals court overturned that ruling in December, saying that evidence of Pyongyang’s involvement in the kidnapping, along with testimony from expert witnesses about widespread torture in North Korean prison camps, were enough for the family to claim damages.
此前，因为缺乏证据，难以证明朝鲜的确折磨并杀害了金东植，这起案件曾被驳回。但是，一个上诉法院于12月推翻了这个裁决，称朝鲜参与绑架的证据，以及专家证人对朝鲜监狱普遍存在折磨的证词，足以支持这家人提出的赔偿请求。
The ruling last week, by Chief Judge Richard W. Roberts, ordered North Korea to pay $300 million in punitive damages, as well as $15 million each to Mr. Kim’s brother, Yong-seok Kim, and his son, Han Kim. “North Korea has caused irreparable emotional and psychological harm to the Kims,” the judge said in his ruling.
上周，首席法官理查德·W·罗伯茨(Richard W. Roberts)作出判决，命令朝鲜支付3亿美元的惩罚性赔偿，并向金东植的兄弟金永石（Yong-seok Kim，音）和他的儿子金韩（Han Kim，音）每人补偿1500万美元。法官在判决结果中称，“朝鲜对金家造成了无法弥补的情感和心理伤害。”
Mr. Kim’s relatives were not available for comment; Shurat HaDin said they “feel that justice has been served but still feel the great loss” of Mr. Kim.
记者未能联系到金东植的亲属发表评论。以色列法律中心表示，他们“认为案件得到了公正判决，但仍为失去金东植而感到非常悲痛”。
Do Hee-youn, head of the Citizens’ Coalition for the Human Rights of Abductees and North Korean Refugees, based in Seoul, said organizations like his had watched the Kims’ case closely. “This verdict could help trigger a floodgate of lawsuits against the North Korean government worldwide, especially from the families of Japanese whose members have been kidnapped to North Korea,” Mr. Do said. North Korea has admitted kidnapping Japanese citizens in the past, an issue that still haunts Japan’s dealings with Pyongyang.
总部位于首尔的“被绑架者和朝鲜难民人权公民联合会”(Citizens’ Coalition for the Human Rights of Abductees and North Korean Refugees)的负责人都熙渊(Do Hee-youn)表示，公民联合会等组织密切关注金东植的案件。“这一判决可能会促使世界各地的人对朝鲜政府提起诉讼，特别是家人被绑架到朝鲜的一些日本家庭，”都熙渊说。朝鲜承认过去曾绑架过日本公民，这仍是一个困扰日本与朝鲜交往的问题。
But Kim Mi-young, director of the Transitional Justice Mission, which studies North Korean human rights violations from its base in Seoul, said the ruling had essentially “symbolic” value, at least for now, to those seeking to put pressure on Pyongyang over its abuses.
但过渡司法中心(Transitional Justice Mission)负责人金美英（Kim Mi-young，音）表示，对于那些试图因为朝鲜的虐待行为，而向朝鲜方面施压的人士来说，这项判决实质上只有“象征”意义，至少目前如此。这个总部位于首尔的机构，主要研究朝鲜侵犯人权的情况。
“I am highly skeptical about how much it can be enforced,” said Ms. Kim, a lawyer who specializes in international human rights law.
金美英律师专门研究国际人权法，她表示，“我高度怀疑这一裁决能在多大程度上得到执行。”
Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director for Human Rights Watch, said the ruling should be seen as “yet another strand in an expanding web of U.N. resolutions, legal decisions and monitoring arrangements designed to box North Korea in and restrict its actions until it answers for its rights crimes.”
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)亚洲区副主任菲尔·罗伯逊(Phil Robertson)表示，“联合国做出了一系列决议、判决及监督安排，以便约束朝鲜、限制它的行动，逼迫它回应自身侵犯权利的犯罪。应该将这一裁决，看作不断扩大的努力当中的一部分。”
Mr. Kim, then 52, was getting into a taxi in Yanji, a Chinese town near the North Korean border, in January 2000 when unidentified men jumped in after him and the car sped away. The apparent kidnapping made headlines in South Korea at the time, but few clues to his disappearance emerged.
2000年，当时52岁的金东植在靠近朝鲜的中国边境城市延吉坐上出租车时，一些身份不明的男子紧随其后上车，然后出租车疾驶而去。这起似乎是绑架的事件，当时在韩国广受媒体关注，但并没有发掘出关于这起失踪案的多少线索。
That began to change in 2004, when Chung Kwang-il, a North Korean defector, arrived in South Korea. Mr. Chung said he had seen Mr. Kim in an underground cell at the Ministry of State Security office in Hoeryong, a North Korean town across the border from Yanji, soon after his abduction.
但2004年，脱北者郑光日（Chung Kwang-il，音）来到韩国时，情况发生了改变。郑光日表示，在金东植被绑架后不久，他在朝鲜国家安全保卫部位于会宁的办公地点的地下牢房里，见到了金东植。会宁临近延吉，在边境线的朝鲜一侧。
Soon after Mr. Chung escaped to South Korea in 2004, he said, he learned from his contacts in China that one of Mr. Kim’s kidnappers, Liu Yong-hua, an ethnic Korean, had fled to South Korea to avoid questions from the Chinese police about the abduction. Mr. Chung notified the South Korean authorities, and Mr. Liu was soon arrested.
郑光日2004年逃到韩国后不久表示，他通过自己在中国的熟人得知，绑架金东植的朝鲜族人刘永华（音）为躲避中国警方对这起绑架案的讯问，逃到了韩国。郑光日告知了韩国当局，刘永华很快被捕。