SEOUL, South Korea — Four officials with the operator of the doomed South Korean ferry have been arrested on charges of overloading the ship with cargo, a senior prosecutor said on Tuesday, as President Park Geun-hye attributed one of her country’s worst peacetime disasters to corporate “greed.”
韩国首尔——一名高级检察官周二说，当局已将负责操作韩国失事渡轮的公司的四名高管逮捕，对他们的指控是轮船货物超载，与此同时，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)将这场韩国和平时期最严重的灾难之一归咎于企业的“贪婪”。
Since the 6,825-ton ferry Sewol sank off southwestern South Korea on April 16, damning charges of poor seamanship, corporate greed and lax regulatory enforcement of safety measures have surfaced, leaving little doubt among South Koreans that the ferry, in retrospect, had been a perfect recipe for disaster.
6825吨级的“世越号”（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）渡轮4月16日在韩国西南部海域沉没，自那时起，各种谴责接连不断，比如糟糕的船舶驾驶技术、企业贪婪，以及安全措施的监管执法松懈等，使韩国人几乎毫无疑问地意识到，回想起来，这些问题的结合给渡轮灾难带来了无穷的隐患。
With the arrest of four officials of Chonghaejin Marine Company, including a 62-year-old executive who was put behind bars on Tuesday, investigators formally identified overloading as one of the causes of the disaster, which left 263 dead and 39 missing as of Tuesday.
清海镇海运公司(Chonghaejin Marine Company)4名负责人已被逮捕，其中包括一位周二入狱的62岁的高管。调查人员正式确认超载是导致灾难的原因之一。截至周二，这一灾难已导致263人死亡，39人失踪。
The officials faced criminal charges, including accidental homicide. They were accused of contributing to the deaths of passengers by ordering the overloading of the ship or ignoring the danger that the excessive cargo and its improper stowage caused to the vessel’s stability.
这些高管面临刑事指控，包括意外过失杀人罪。因他们下令让轮船超载、不顾超载和货物捆绑不妥给船只稳定性带来的危险，他们被指控造成乘客死亡。
Investigators had earlier said that the Sewol suddenly listed and began sinking while making a sharp turn amid a strong current. They also attributed the accident to the recent addition of cabins in the upper decks that made the ship top-heavy and impaired its ability to right itself after tilting. Many of the vehicles, shipping containers and other cargo on board were poorly lashed or not tied down at all, so that they slid to the side when the ship tilted, further damaging its ability to recover its balance, they said.
调查人员早些时候称，“世越号”在一股激流中急转弯时突然发生倾斜。他们还把事故的原因归咎于船的上层甲板最近增加的客舱，这让船的上部过重，降低了船体在发生倾斜后矫正自身的能力。调查人员说，船上的许多车辆、集装箱以及其他货物都没有捆绑牢固，或是根本没有捆绑，因此在船体发生倾斜时，这些物体都滑向了船的一侧，进一步阻碍了船体恢复平衡的能力。
“We are still calculating exactly how many tons of cargo the ship was carrying, but based on what we have found out so far, it’s clear that it was carrying more than allowed,” said Yang Joong-jin, a senior prosecutor involved in the investigation.
参与调查的高级检查官杨钟金（Yang Joong-jin，音译）说，“我们仍在计算船上当时载有货物的确切吨数，但根据我们目前已经发现的情况来看，船上载的货物量明显地超过了所允许的。”
In South Korea, where memories of large-scale disasters, like the collapse of a Seoul department store that killed 501 people in 1995, remain fresh, the ferry disaster stood out as one of the most traumatizing. Of the 302 people dead or missing, 250 were high school students who survivors said were trapped inside the ship because the crew repeatedly urged them to stay put while the ship was badly tilting. Some of the trapped students asked for help or bid farewell to their families through cellphone text messages or video footage, leaving the country in a wrenching state of anguish, grief and shame.
在韩国，人们对几起大灾难记忆犹新，比如1995年首尔一家百货商店倒塌导致501人死亡的事情，而这次翻船灾难所带来的精神创伤尤为突出。在死亡或失踪的302人当中，有250名是高中学生，幸存者说这些学生被困在了船内，因为在船体严重倾斜时，船员仍多次要求他们呆在原处。一些被困在船中的学生通过手机短信或视频呼救，或向家人告别，这让韩国处在一片交织着痛苦、悲伤和耻辱的气氛之中。
For three weeks, distraught families have camped out on a pier near the site of the sinking. Divers have been struggling against strong currents and poor visibility to reach the ship lying on its side 120 feet underwater. Once there, they crawled through a dark maze of corridors and cabins clogged with debris to pull out scores of bodies. On Tuesday, one of the divers died after losing consciousness underwater.
三周来，心急如焚的家属们一直住在距沉船位置不远的一个码头上搭的帐篷之中。潜水员们一直在与激流和极低的能见度搏斗，试图到达这艘侧翻在水下约36米的沉船。到达沉船之后，他们爬入错综复杂的黑暗走廊和塞满碎片的船舱，把大批尸体打捞出来。周二，一名潜水员在水下失去知觉后死亡。
“As the president, who must protect the lives of the people, I am sorry and heavy-hearted,” Ms. Park said while visiting a temple in central Seoul on Tuesday to mark Buddha’s birthday. “I am at a loss what to say to console the families who lost young students.”
朴槿惠周二在首尔中心的一座寺庙参加佛诞节活动时说，“作为必须保护人民生命的总统，我心情沉重，很抱歉。我不知道该说什么去安慰那些失去年轻学生的家庭。”
It was her second apology in a week for failing to prevent the disaster and for the government’s fumbling the early phases of rescue operations. Her approval ratings have plummeted in recent opinion surveys.
这是她一周以来的第二次道歉，是针对不能阻止这场灾难发生、以及政府救援行动初期措施不力所做的。她的支持率在最近的民意调查中急剧下降。
Ms. Park responded to the disaster with a vow to fight the “deep-rooted evils of the past” — collusive ties between shipping companies, private safety inspectors and government ministries that she said created safety loopholes. On Tuesday, Ms. Park singled out businessmen who were “blinded by material greed and did not follow safety regulations” and regulators whose “irresponsibility in glossing over such injustice resulted in killing people.”
朴槿惠面对这一灾难发誓，要打击“过去根深蒂固的罪恶”，既海运公司、私人安全检查员以及政府部门之间相互串通的关系，她说是这种关系制造了安全漏洞。周二，朴槿惠指责一些商人“被物质贪婪所迷惑，不遵守安全规则”，还批评了某些监管人员，称他们“粉饰这些不公的不负责任态度导致了杀人。”
Prosecutors have raided the homes of a family that owns a major stake in Chonghaejin Marine through another company. They were also investigating two ship inspection agencies: the Korea Shipping Association and the Korean Register of Shipping.
检察官还搜查了一家人的住宅，这家人通过另一家公司拥有清海镇海运公司的多数股权。他们也在调查两家海运监管机构：韩国航运协会(Korea ShippingAssociation)和韩国船级社(Korean Register of Shipping)。
So far, the ship’s captain, Lee Jun-seok, and 14 other crew members have been arrested on charges of abandoning their ship first, without alerting or escorting passengers to evacuate.
至此，船长李俊锡(Lee Jun-seok)和另外14名船员已被逮捕，他们被指控未向乘客发出撤离警告、或保护乘客撤离，而自己率先弃船逃生。
The disaster has exposed enormous safety gaps in the country’s domestic ferry industry.
这起灾难报露出韩国国内渡轮行业存在的巨大安全漏洞。
The first thing Chonghaejin did when it bought the 18-year-old ferry secondhand from Japan was to add more cabins to its upper decks to increase its passenger capacity to 921 from 804. The redesigning added 187 tons of weight to the ship. Early last year, the Korean Register of Shipping approved the change on the condition that the Sewol reduce its maximum cargo capacity by more than half, to 990 tons. It also demanded that the ship carry more ballast water in its bottom to make up for the stability lost in the redesigning, according to documents from the register.
清海镇海运公司在从日本购买了这艘已有18年历史的二手轮船后做的第一件事便是，在上层甲板上增加客舱，使这艘渡轮的载客量从804人增加到了921人。改造工作给船体增添了187吨的额外重量。去年的早些时候，韩国船级社批准了这一改造，但前提条件是“世越号”须将其最大载货能力减少一半以上，降至990吨。该机构还要求这艘船在底部携带更多的压载水，以弥补改造对船身稳定性带来的影响，船级社的纪录显示。
But the enforcement of the requirements was left to the shipping company. Both the Korea Shipping Association, which was supposed to monitor ferries, and the Coast Guard, which oversees the association, have said they had not known about the new cargo limits for the Sewol.
但是确保这些要求得到执行的工作留给了海运公司。负责监管渡轮的韩国船运协会、以及负责监管该协会的韩国海岸警卫队(Coast Guard)都表示，他们不知道“世越号”有新的载货限制。
Meanwhile, the Sewol and the 6,322-ton Ohamana, another ferry operated by Chonghaejin, have routinely overloaded cargo, often carrying more than 3,000 tons, three times the legal limit, according to the shipping data available at the website of the Incheon Port Authority.
与此同时，“世越号”以及清海镇海运公司旗下的另一艘排水量为6322吨的轮船“奥哈马纳号”(Ohamana)常规性超载，经常载有3000吨货物，是其法定负载限度的三倍，仁川港湾公社(Incheon Port Authority)网站上的轮船数据信息显示。
When the Sewol embarked April 15 on its doomed voyage from Incheon, a port west of Seoul, it reported to the shipping association that it was carrying 657 tons of cargo and 150 vehicles. After the sinking, Chonghaejin revised the data, saying that the ship was carrying 124 cars and 56 trucks and 1,157 tons of cargo. (Investigators were questioning cargo companies to determine an accurate cargo volume.)
当“世越号”于4月15日从首尔西部的仁川港启程这次不归航行时，该船向轮船协会报告的载货量是657吨，还有150辆汽车。沉船后，清海镇海运公司修改了数据，称该船当时载有124辆汽车、56辆卡车以及1157吨货物。（调查人员正在询问发货公司，以确定实际载货重量。）