SEOUL, South Korea — Parents of high school students killed in the South Korean ferry disaster marched on the office of President Park Geun-hye in central Seoul on Friday, as prosecutors tightened their investigative noose around an enigmatic family that controls the operator of the doomed ferry.
韩国首尔——上周五，在韩国海难中丧生的高中学生的父母前往首尔市中心朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的总统府外抗议，而检察官也加紧了围绕一个神秘家族开展的调查，失事渡轮的经营企业就是由该家族控制的。
Holding photos of their children, the parents said they came to ask for a meeting with Ms. Park to demand an inquiry into allegations that a tardy and bumbling response by her government drastically increased the number of deaths in the country’s worst disaster in decades.
这些父母举着孩子的照片，说他们想与朴槿惠会面，要求她调查其政府受到的指责。朴槿惠政府被指在回应这起事件时行动既缓慢又草率，因而严重扩大了死亡人数，造成了韩国几十年来最严重的灾难事件。
They also demanded that the government dismiss a top news editor at KBS, South Korea’s largest public broadcasting company, where the government has at least an indirect influence in appointing its top management. Some local media quoted the editor as saying during a recent lunch with colleagues that the number of dead in the ferry tragedy was “not many, compared with the number of people killed in traffic accidents each year.” KBS denied that the editor made the comment.
他们还要求政府辞退韩国最大的公共广播公司KBS的新闻采编负责人，政府至少可以间接影响KBS对高级管理层的任命。据一些当地媒体报道，这位编辑近期在与同事共进午餐时，谈到了轮渡惨剧的死亡人数，当时他说，“和每年交通事故丧生的人数相比，不是很多。”KBS否认该编辑说过这样的话。
“We are not criminals,” Kim Byong-kwon, whose daughter died in the sinking of the ferry Sewol on April 16, shouted through a loudspeaker. “We have come here not as protesters but to make an appeal to her.” Two senior presidential aides met family representatives. For 12 hours, hundreds of parents and supporters staged a sit-in near Ms. Park’s presidential palace, until Kil Hwan-young, head of KBS, came and apologized for the editor’s “inappropriate” comment.
“我们不是罪犯，”金秉权（Kim Byong-kwon，音译）用扬声器喊道，他的女儿在4月16日的“世越号”（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）沉船事故中丧生。“我们来这里不是为了抗议，而是为了向她请愿。”总统的两名高级助手会见了家属代表。数百名家长和支持者在总统府附近静坐了12小时，直到KBS电视台负责人吉桓永(Kil Hwan-young)前来，为该台报道局长的“不当”言论道歉。
Their sit-in, and its intense media coverage, represented the latest sign of brewing political trouble for Ms. Park. Her approval ratings have sharply dropped since the disaster, with some South Koreans calling for her resignation.
这起静坐活动以及媒体对它的密集报道，显示出了朴槿惠的政治麻烦正在发酵的最新迹象。自这起海难发生以来，她的支持率大幅下降，一些韩国人要求她辞职。
On Thursday, eight university students climbed the landmark statue of an ancient Korean king in central Seoul, unfurling a banner that said, “Down with the Park Geun-hye regime!” They were quickly detained by the police.
上周四，八名大学生在首尔市中心，爬上了韩国古代国王的标志性雕像，并展开一面条幅，上面写着“朴槿惠政权下台！”这些学生很快被警方拘捕。
As of Friday, 273 people were found to have died in the disaster, a vast majority of them students. Divers were still searching the sunken ferry and its vicinity for 31 people who remain missing more than three weeks after the overloaded vessel sank off southwestern South Korea.
截至上周五，这起沉船事故的死亡人数已达273人，其中绝大多数是学生。潜水员仍在沉没的渡轮中及附近水域搜索，这艘超载的渡轮在韩国西南部海域沉没三个多星期后，仍然有31人下落不明。
Ms. Park has apologized several times for failing to prevent the disaster and what she called her government’s fumbling in the early stages of rescue efforts. Under the mounting pressure, she has vowed stern punishment, blaming the accident on “the deep-rooted evils from the past” — corporate greed and collusive ties between businesses and regulators that she said bred lax safety measures and loose regulatory enforcement.
朴槿惠已经就未能阻止灾难发生道歉过好几次，她也承认政府在救援工作早期阶段手忙脚乱。在越来越大的压力之下，朴槿惠已宣称要采取严厉的惩罚措施。她将这起事件归咎于“过去遗留下来的根深蒂固的邪恶”——企业贪婪成性，并与监管部门串通勾结。她表示，这导致了安全措施松懈和监管执法不力。
On Friday, prosecutors tightened their investigations around the family of Yoo Byung-eun, who had made headlines in the 1990s when he was investigated in the mass suicide of 32 members of a religious cult and was convicted of fraud.
上周五，检察官加紧了对俞炳彦(Yoo Byung-eun)家族的调查。上世纪90年代，俞炳彦因涉嫌某邪教组织32名成员的集体自杀事件而遭到调查，并被判处欺诈罪，一度广受媒体关注。
Mr. Yoo, in his 70s, had since largely disappeared from the public view until the ferry disaster. The ferry operator, Chonghaejin Marine Co., is controlled by a company owned by his two sons.
自那时起，俞炳彦基本上就从公众视野中消失了，直到这起海难发生，70多岁的他才再次被广泛提起。“世越号”的经营方清海镇海运公司(Chonghaejin Marine Company)由他两个儿子拥有的公司控制。
Mr. Yoo, who has recently worked as a professional photographer, said through his lawyer and public relations agency that he was not a shareholder of Chonghaejin and was not involved in its management.
俞炳彦近年来已经成为专职摄影师，他通过律师和公关公司表示，自己不是清海镇公司的股东，也没有没有参与其经营管理。
But investigators said they were looking into whether Mr. Yoo was controlling the ferry company through his children, as well as allegations that his family has been using Chonghaejin and other companies as tools to raise illegal funds. These companies, run by family members and their associates, were interlocked with each other through cross-share holdings, which investigators said allowed the family to control them like a typical South Korean family-controlled business empire. But theirs were mostly obscure companies with small revenues, some involved in running organic farms, including one in California.
但调查人员说，他们不仅在调查俞炳彦是否通过儿子来控制这家船运公司，而且还在调查该家族利用清海镇等公司来非法筹资的指控。这些公司由其家庭成员和关系人控制，交叉持股、盘根错节，调查人员说俞炳彦家族采取这种方式来控制企业，这是韩国家族控制商业帝国的典型做法。但俞炳彦家族控制的公司大多并不起眼，营收较少，其中一些参与了有机农场的经营，包括位于加利福尼亚的一个农场。
On Friday, prosecutors said that they were seeking to arrest Kim Han-sik, the head of Chonghaejin, on charges of ignoring a routine overloading of the Sewol to generate profits at the cost of safety for passengers. Also on Friday, they arrested Lee Jae-young, 62, head of a company named Ahae Corp., on charges of squandering corporate funds by buying millions of dollars of worth of Mr. Yoo’s photos at prices far higher than market values.
上周五，检察官说，他们正在寻求逮捕清海镇公司负责人金汉植（Kim Han-sik，音译），指控此人无视“世越号”正常载客人数的限制，以乘客的人身安全为代价赚取利润。同样在上周五，检方逮捕了62岁的Ahae公司负责人李在荣（Lee Jae-yong，音译），指控他挥霍公司资金，因为他以远远高于市场价值的价格，耗资数百万美元购买了俞炳彦拍摄的照片。
Prosecutors were also seeking to arrest the heads of two other companies on similar charges, as well as several Yoo family members.
检察官也在寻求以类似指控逮捕另外两家公司的负责人，以及俞炳彦的一些家族成员。
Mr. Yoo was not immediately available for comment. Questions about the allegations against him, delivered through his public relations agency, were not answered.
记者无法立即联系到俞炳彦本人并请求置评。有关他受到指控的问题由其公关公司转交，但都没有得到答复。
Mr. Yoo was a leading member of the Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea, which was founded by his father-in-law. He spent four years in prison in the 1990s for defrauding his church members to finance the expansion of his businesses. He was also investigated for a possible connection with the mass suicide of 32 cult church members who were found dead, bound or hanged in the ceiling of a factory restaurant in 1987, but he was not charged. He had also once headed a ferry company that went bankrupt.
俞炳彦曾是韩国基督教福音浸礼会(Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea)的领导人物，该教会由其岳父创立。上世纪90年代，他为了拓展生意，诈骗教会成员的钱财，因此坐了四年牢。此外，他还因为涉嫌一起邪教集体自杀事件受到过调查，但没有被起诉。在1987年的那起事件中，32名邪教教徒被发现死于一家工厂餐厅，他们被捆绑或悬吊在天花板上。俞炳彦还曾是一家已经破产的船运公司的负责人。