State prosecutors equipped with metal detectors raided the Seoul residence of former President Chun Doo-hwan on Tuesday to look forhis assets. Mr. Chun, the ex-military dictator, owes South Korea 167.5 billion won, or $150 million, in fines but claims to be broke.
国家检察官周二带着金属探测器突击搜查了前总统全斗焕(Chun Doo-hwan)在首尔的住宅，为的是寻找他的资产。前军事独裁者全斗焕欠韩国1675亿韩元（约为1.5亿美元）的罚款，但他号称自己破产了。
In a Supreme Court court ruling in 1997, Mr. Chun, now 82, was ordered to return to the state 220 billion won he had illegally accumulated through bribery from big businesses during his eight and a half years in power in the 1980s. He has so far paid only a quarter of the amount. In his last payment, he handed in $2.7 million he said he had collected as a lecture fee.
在1997年最高法院的一个裁定中，现年82岁的全斗焕被判需还给国家2200亿韩元，这些钱是他在20世纪80年代执政的八年半期间从大公司收受贿赂的积累所得。到目前为止，他只支付了这笔钱的四分之一。他的最近一笔付款交出的是他称之为演讲所得的270万美元。
Mr. Chun has rarely appeared in public since he stepped down in 1988 and entered a Buddhist monastery. In the 1997 verdict, he was also convicted of sedition for his role in the 1979 military coup that brought him to power and a 1980 military crackdown that left hundreds of people dead in the southwestern city of Kwangju. He initially was sentenced to death, but the penalty was reduced to a life imprisonment. He was later pardoned and freed.
全斗焕自1988年下台以后，隐居到一座佛教寺庙中，几乎很少在公共场合露面。1997年的裁决还判他犯有煽动叛乱罪，这个判决有两个原因，一是他在使自己上台的1979年军事政变中所起的作用，二是他在1980年动用军队镇压民众，致使西南城市光州数百人死亡。他最初被判死刑，后来被减刑为终身监禁。那之后他被豁免，并获得了自由。
On Tuesday, a team of 90 prosecutors, tax collectors and other investigators ransacked Mr. Chun’s home in eastern Seoul. Television footage showed them hauling away paintings, porcelain and expensive artifacts.
周二，由检察官、税收人员和其他调查人员组成的90人的队伍搜查了全斗焕位于首尔东部的住所。电视转播显示他们用车装走了绘画、陶瓷制品和昂贵的文物。
The investigators also searched the properties owned by his eldest son, Chun Jae-kook. The son’s publishing company, Sigongsa Inc., is one of the country’s largest and has published the Korean translations of books by John Grisham, C. S. Lewis and Roald Dahl. Another son, Chun Jae-man, and his father-in-law run a California winery.
调查人员还搜查了他大儿子全宰国(Chun Jae-kook)所拥有的财产。全宰国的出版公司Sigongsa Inc.是韩国最大的出版公司之一，曾出版过约翰·格里沙姆(John Grisham)、C.S.·刘易斯(C.S.Lewis)和罗阿尔德·达赫(Roald Dah)书的韩语版本。全斗焕的另一个儿子全宰万(Chun Jae-man)及其岳父经营着加利福尼亚州的一个葡萄酒酿造厂。
There was no immediate comment from Mr. Chun’s family about the raids on Tuesday.
全斗焕的家人对周二的突击搜查没有马上发表评论。
Mr. Chun has been dogged by prosecutors for years. In 2000, they seized a Mercedes-Benz sedan from him. In 2003, they confiscated a refrigerator, television set and golf clubs and auctioned them off. At the time, Mr. Chun claimed to have less than $260 in his bank accounts, although opposition lawmakers said he might have huge assets stashed away.
检方多年来一直在追踪全斗焕。2000年，他们收缴了全斗焕的一辆梅赛德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)轿车。2003年，他们没收了一台冰箱、一台电视机，还有高尔夫球杆，并将这些东西拍卖出去。当时，全斗焕称其银行账户中的钱不足260美元，但反对派议员称他可能藏匿了大笔财产。
Suspicion resurfaced after Newstapa, a Web site run by the Korea Center of Investigative Journalism, recently reported that Chun Jae-kook set up a shell company in the British Virgin Islands in 2004. The son has since said the account had nothing to do with his father.
最近，韩国调查性新闻中心(Korea Center of Investigative Journalism)的一个网站Newstapa发了一篇报道，再度引发人们对其财产的怀疑。报道称全宰国曾于2004年在英属维尔京群岛注册了一家皮包公司。全宰国之后称，那个帐户与自己的父亲无关。
Last month, the National Assembly passed a bill extending the statute of limitations on confiscating assets from public officials who have failed to pay fines. Under the old law, prosecutors had only until October. The new law extends the statute of limitations on Mr. Chun’s case until 2020 and allows prosecutors to collect from his family members as well if they can prove that any of their properties originated from Mr. Chun’s illegal funds.
上月，国会(National Assembly)通过一项法案，该法案延长了对没有支付罚款的公共官员没收资产的执法时效期。根据原有立法，检方的执法权在10月失效。新立法把对全斗焕案子的执法时效期延长到2020年，并允许检方征收其家人的财产，如果他们能够证明家人的财产是来自全斗焕的非法所得。
The military coup in 1979 propelled Mr. Chun, an army major general at the time, into the power vacuum created by the assassination of President Park Chung-hee, the father of the current president, Park Geun-hye. During her presidential campaign, Ms. Park admitted that she had received 600 million won from Mr. Chun after the coup. She said she would repay the money to the state.
1979年的军事政变使时任上将的全斗焕得以借朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)被暗杀产生的权力真空而上台。朴正熙是韩国现任总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的父亲。朴槿惠在总统竞选中承认自己在那次军事政变之后，从全斗焕那里得到过6亿韩元。她称自己将会把这笔钱归还给国家。
Former President Roh Tae-woo, a fellow army general and friend of Mr. Chun who replaced him as president, was also ordered to pay back 260 billion won. Mr. Roh has more than 90 percent of the sum.
同是军队将领的前总统卢泰愚(Roh Tae-woo)是全斗焕的好友，他取代了全斗焕继任总统。他也被要求归还2600亿韩元。卢泰愚所拥有的资产相当于这笔罚款的90%以上。