SEOUL, South Korea —A hacking specialist at South Korea’s National Intelligence Service who was found dead left a suicide note denying that his team spied on South Korean citizens’ cellphone or other online communications, the police said on Sunday.
韩国首尔——韩国警方在周日表示，韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)的一名黑客专家身亡并留下自杀遗书，否认他的团队监控了韩国民众的手机或其他网络通讯。
The 45-year-old agent, who was identified only by his last name, Lim, was found dead in his car near Seoul on Saturday in what appeared to have been a suicide. His death came as the political opposition demanded an investigation into suspicions that the spy agency had been intercepting the cellphone and computer communications of South Korean citizens, including government critics, using software it purchased from the Italian company Hacking Team.
45岁的探员林某(Lim)于周六被发现死于位于首尔附近的自己车中，似乎是自杀。这起死亡事件的背景是，有人怀疑该间谍机构利用从意大利的黑客团队公司(Hacking Team)购买的软件，窃听包括政府批评者在内的韩国民众的手机及电脑通讯，政治反对党派要求对此展开调查。
Hacking Team was itself hacked, with large amounts of emails and other internal company data leaked online early this month. The data showed that one of the company’s clients was “South Korean Army Unit 5163,” which is widely believed here to be one of the cover addresses for the National Intelligence Service.
黑客团队公司本身遭到了黑客攻击，大量邮件等公司内部数据于本月初泄露到网上。这些数据显示，“韩国5163部队”(South Korean Army Unit 5163)是该公司的客户之一。外界普遍认为，这是国家情报院采用的一个掩护地址。
Last week, the agency admitted buying hacking programs from the Italian company in 2012. But it said the purchase was for research purposes as it tried to bolster its spying on North Korea. South Korean bloggers, news outlets and opposition parties have cited Hacking Team’s leaked data to suggest that the agency may have spied on the country’s own citizens.
上周，国家情报院承认曾于2012年从这家意大利公司采购黑客程序，但表示他们在努力加强对朝鲜的监控，而购买程序是用于研究目的。韩国的博客作者、新闻机构及反对党以黑客团队公司泄露的数据为由，宣称情报院可能在对国民进行监控。
“I swear that there was no surveillance on domestic citizens and election activities,” the agent wrote in his note, which was released to the news media on Sunday. South Korea held a presidential election in 2012, and a former spy chief is on trial on charges of leading a secret online smear campaign against the rivals of the eventual winner, President Park Geun-hye.
“我发誓，不存在针对国内民众及选举活动的监控，”这名探员在遗书中写道。相关部门于周日向新闻媒体公布了这封遗书的内容。韩国在2012年举行了总统选举，最终获胜的是朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)。情报机构的一名前负责人目前正在接受审判，罪名是在网上发动秘密的诽谤活动，诋毁朴槿惠的竞争对手。