HEUKSAN ISLAND, South Korea — South Korea has a generous list of foods some find hard to swallow, among them boiled silkworm pupae and live baby octopuses, which have been known to attach their suction cups to the roofs of diners’ mouths in what appear to be desperate bids to escape.
韩国黑山岛——韩国人的食谱上包括了许多让人难以下咽的东西，比如煮蚕蛹和活的小章鱼。据说这些小章鱼会用吸盘吸附在食客的上牙膛上，仿佛在做最后的挣扎。
But fermented skate from this southern island tops them all. By far South Korea’s smelliest food, the fish, called hongeo, is described by lovers and detractors alike as releasing odors reminiscent of an outhouse. Served most often as chewy pink slabs of sashimi, hongeo is prized by enthusiasts for the ammonia fumes it releases, sometimes so strong they cause people’s mouths to peel.
不过，最为奇葩的当属产自这个南部岛屿的发酵鳐鱼。这种名为洪鱼脍的东西无疑是韩国最臭的食物，爱它的人和恨它的人都会这样形容：它散发的气味会让人联想起户外的公共厕所。在餐桌上，洪鱼脍大多是以很有嚼头的粉红色生鱼片的形式出现的，喜爱它的人们对其散发的氨水气味赞不绝口。这种氨气味有时非常强烈，甚至会让食客嘴唇脱皮。
“I used to think that people could not possibly eat this stuff unless they were crazy,” said Park Jae-hee, a 48-year-old marketing executive. “But like smelly blue cheese, it has no replacement once you fall in love with it.”
48岁的营销主管朴在熙（Park Jae-hee，音译）说，“我过去以为，人们绝不可能吃这种东西，除非他们疯了。但就像味道刺鼻的蓝乳酪一样，一旦爱上，它就变得无可替代。”
It is easy, of course, to poke fun at other nations’ cuisines: Consider Europeans’ wrinkled noses at the American penchant for slathering ketchup on everything from fries to scrambled eggs. But some South Koreans who are otherwise fiercely proud of their fiery, often odoriferous foods, like kimchi, admit to being repelled by hongeo and baffled by its rising popularity.
当然了，人们常常会对其他国家的食物加以取笑：比如，对于美国人吃什么都放番茄酱——无论是炸薯条还是炒鸡蛋，欧洲人就很不屑。但即使是一些对泡菜等辛辣且气味浓重的本国食物引以为傲的韩国人都承认，洪鱼脍让他们敬而远之，他们也不明白它为何越来越受欢迎。
“I can’t understand who in the world would pay to eat a rotten fish in a restaurant that smells like an uncleaned public restroom,” said Ms. Park’s closest friend, Huh Eun.
朴在熙最好的朋友许恩（Huh Eun，音译）说，“我不明白，世界上怎么会有人到餐馆花钱吃一种烂鱼，它闻起来就像是没打扫的公共厕所一样。”
Even those who swoon over its exotic taste cheerily admit their passion comes with some social costs. A subway ride after a meal of hongeo can be isolating, with fellow riders sometimes casting furtive glances and sidling away. Owners of restaurants that specialize in hongeo advise customers to seal their jackets in plastic bags before the meal and offer to spray them with deodorant afterward.
即使是对洪鱼脍的独特味道情有独钟的人也承认，对洪鱼脍的爱好让他们的社交生活付出了代价。刚吃完洪鱼脍就乘地铁会让你受到“孤立”，同车的乘客可能会对你侧目而视，并慢慢挪走。洪鱼脍餐厅的老板们建议顾客们在用餐前把外套放进塑料袋里密封，并且在用餐完毕后，主动为客人的衣服喷洒除臭剂。
“I’ve eaten dog, durian and bugs, but this is still the most challenging food I’ve ever eaten,” said Joe McPherson, the American founder of the Korean food blog ZenKimchi, who has become a self-appointed ambassador for Korean cuisine. “It’s like licking a urinal.”
创办了韩国美食博客ZenKimchi的美国人乔·麦克弗森(Joe McPherson)说，“我吃过狗肉、榴莲和昆虫，但这仍是我吃过的最有挑战性的食物。”麦克弗森自称是韩国美食大使。他说，“那感觉就像舔一只尿壶一样。”
The lowly fish, once just a regional specialty in the southwest provinces of North and South Jeolla, followed the migration of rural workers during South Korea’s industrial boom in the 20th century, with restaurants specializing in hongeo opening to serve growing populations of scattered Jeolla natives.
曾经上不了台面的洪鱼是西南部的全罗北道和全罗南道的地方特产。20世纪韩国工业繁荣时期，它跟随到外地务工的农民传到各地，一些专门提供洪鱼脍的餐厅纷纷开张，以满足散落在各地的全罗道人的需求。
Still, it took a while to catch on, thwarted not only by its formidable odor and limited supply, but also by the regional prejudices that have dogged Jeolla, where Heuksan Island is. During decades of military dictatorships, the country’s elites, often from rival Gyeongsang Province, were accused of ostracizing Jeolla and fomenting a bias that outlived authoritarian rule.
尽管如此，洪鱼脍并没有马上流行起来，这不仅是因为它气味刺鼻且供应有限，而且因为黑山岛所在的全罗道所面对的歧视。在军事独裁统治下的几十年里，韩国的权贵阶层被指对全罗道地区加以排斥，他们挑起的歧视在独裁统治结束后仍然存在。这些权贵大多来自与全罗道相对立的庆尚道地区。
Then, about 10 years ago, a free-trade agreement with Chile helped wear down resistance to Jeolla’s signature fish dish, flooding the market with relatively cheap Chilean hongeo and inspiring new restaurants to open.
接着，在大约10年前，韩国与智利的一份自由贸易协定帮助减轻了人们对全罗道这种独特鱼类食品的抗拒。相对价格低廉的智利洪鱼涌入市场，提供洪鱼脍的餐厅也大量涌现。
Among the legions of the fish’s fans, the velvety texture of frozen hongeo liver melting on the tongue with a pinch of salt and red pepper has been compared to foie gras. The smell, to their minds, is most of the appeal, coupled with a tingling in the mouth that accompanies the hit of ammonia. Gourmets say a proper hongeo dinner must end with hongeo soup, steaming with the smell of boiling ammonia.
对于洪鱼的拥趸来说，佐以少许盐和红辣椒后，冷冻洪鱼肝在舌尖融化时的丝滑口感可以和鹅肝相媲美。在他们看来，洪鱼脍的吸引力主要来自它的气味，再加上呛人的氨气味在口中带来的刺激感。美食家说，一顿像样的洪鱼脍餐必须以洪鱼脍汤结束，洪鱼脍汤应该是热气腾腾的，这样氨气的味道可以扑面而来。
Despite the dish’s newfound popularity, the center of hongeo worship remains here on Heuksan Island, off the country’s southwestern tip. The bottom-feeding fish with the Guy Fawkes-like smile has long been the foundation of the island’s economy, and fishing boats head out several times a month to nearby waters where hongeo feed and lay eggs.
尽管最近流行了起来，但崇尚洪鱼的中心仍然在韩国西南端的黑山岛上。这种带着盖伊·福克斯(Guy Fawkes)式笑容的食底泥鱼一直是该岛的经济支柱，渔船每月出海数次，到附近洪鱼觅食和产卵的水域捕捞。
Islanders say the fish first gained a following here because of a quirk of biology. In the days before refrigeration, the fishermen’s forebears learned that hongeo was the only fish they could ship to the mainland 60 miles away without salting. The hongeo lacks a bladder and excretes uric acid through its skin. As it ferments, it oozes ammonia that keeps it from going bad.
岛民们说，这种鱼最初之所以受青睐，是因为一个生理上的巧合。在没有冰箱的年代，渔民的祖先发现，鳐鱼是唯一一种无需腌制就能运输到60英里（约合96公里）外的大陆的鱼。洪鱼没有膀胱，尿酸的排放是通过皮肤进行的。一旦开始发酵，鱼身体就会开始渗出氨水，起到防止腐烂的作用。
“Hongeo can’t pee, and that’s where the miracle begins,” said Kim Young-chang, 77, the owner of a hongeo restaurant here. A true believer in the fish’s power, Mr. Kim rattled off a list of health benefits he believes come from eating it. “I have never seen anyone having stomach trouble after eating hongeo,” he proclaimed.
“洪鱼不会尿尿，奇迹就是从这里来的，”现年77岁的洪鱼餐馆老板金英昌（Kim Young-chang，音译）说。金英昌对这种鱼的效用深信不疑，一口气列出了一长串食用洪鱼对身体的益处。“我从来没见过有谁吃了洪鱼以后胃不舒服的，”他宣称。
Among Heuksan residents and their neighbors across the water in mainland Jeolla, hongeo has long been an integral part of local tradition and lore. Wedding parties are considered incomplete if hongeo is not served. And natives point out that the dissident-turned-president Kim Dae-jung, perhaps Jeolla’s most famous son, was so homesick for the fish that politicians made sure to bring him fresh stocks during the years of military rule when he was in exile.
在黑山岛以及海峡对岸的全罗道的居民心中，洪鱼一直是本地传统和风俗的一个固有部分。婚礼没有洪鱼会被认为是招待不周。本地人会跟你说，异见分子出身的总统金大中(Kim Dae-jung)——可能是全罗道孕育的第一名人——在军政府统治期间被迫流亡海外，当时他对家乡的鱼十分思念，政治人士都会帮他带去新鲜存货。
The fish has also helped rejuvenate this island of 2,200, once a major port, where thousands of boats sought shelter from typhoons and where crews traded in fish and visited the then-famous bars. The town had declined in recent decades, as boats with refrigerated storage could bring their catch farther and found less use for the island as an offshore trading post.
洪鱼还帮助这个有着2200名居民的岛屿重新焕发生机，这里曾是一个重要港口，遇到台风时会有数千艘船只来避风，船员们在这里做鱼的买卖，并去光顾当地著名的酒吧。自从渔船开始装配冷库后，捕获的鱼可被运送到更远的地方，这个岛作为近海贸易点的作用就没那么大了，镇子在过去几十年里日渐萧条。
But with hongeo’s growing popularity, residents began pitching the island as a tourist attraction where people could sample authentic “Heuksan-do hongeo,” and hongeo restaurants have replaced many of the seafront bars. Yoon Sung-jong, 51, the island’s postmaster, said that up to 80 percent of the outbound packages his office handled were hongeo, addressed to mainland restaurants, where a dish of Heuksan Island’s hongeo can go for $150.
然而，随着洪鱼的流行，岛民开始把品尝正宗“黑山洪鱼”作为本岛旅游卖点来宣传，许多滨海酒吧为洪鱼餐馆取代。岛上的邮政局长、现年51岁的尹成钟（Yoon Sung-jong，音译）说，从该邮局寄出的包裹有八成以上是鳐鱼，收件地址是大陆上的餐馆。一道黑山岛洪鱼在那里能卖到150美元（约合932元人民币）。
These days, one of the surest signs of hongeo’s rise to national attention is also a dispiriting one for those who value regional harmony. According to Lee Jeong-bok, a linguist, the word has entered the lexicon of slurs that some Gyeongsang people hurl at their Jeolla neighbors, with the clear implication that Jeolla people are repulsive. (Not to be outdone, some Jeolla people use the name for a Gyeongsang delicacy — a half-dried mackerel — to describe their enemies there.)
对那些希望地区间能融洽共处的人来说，最能证明洪鱼在全国走红的一个迹象，同时也是让他们感到沮丧的一点。据语言学家李正福（Lee Jeong-bok，音译）说，部分庆尚道人会用洪鱼这个词来辱骂全罗道人，以表明他们多么令人反感。（一些全罗道人也不甘示弱，用庆尚道美食——一种半干的鲭鱼——来形容他们的敌人。）
But hongeo has also helped bridge regional prejudices. Some Gyeongsang natives have been drawn to Heuksan Island to sample the fish. And in a good-will gesture in 2005, Park Geun-hye, a Gyeongsang native and aspiring president, sent two hongeo as a gift when a Jeolla politician named Han Hwa-gap was elected head of an opposition party.
不过洪鱼对地区间的偏见也起到了弥合的作用。一些庆尚道人会到黑山岛品尝洪鱼。2005年，当时志在成为总统的庆尚道人朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)摆出善意的姿态，向当选为反对党党魁的全罗道政治人物韩和甲(Han Hwa-gap)赠送了两条洪鱼。