SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea on Friday repatriated the remains of 437 Chinese soldiers killed during the Korean War six decades ago, making a gesture symbolic of warming ties between the two nations.
韩国首尔——周五，韩国向中国交还了在60年前的朝鲜战争中阵亡的437名中国士兵的遗骸，这一姿态显示两国关系正在升温。
China sent a flood of soldiers to help its Communist ally North Korea, which invaded South Korea in June 1950. Its intervention saved the North, whose forces had been pushed back toward the country’s northern corner by American-led United Nations forces later that year. The three-year war ended in a cease-fire, leaving the divided Korean Peninsula technically in a state of war.
1950年6月朝鲜入侵韩国时，中国派出了大批士兵支援其共产主义盟友朝鲜。中国的干预挽救了朝鲜，当年晚些时候在美国领导的联合国军的攻势下，朝鲜军队退回到了朝鲜北部的一隅。这场为期三年的战争以一份停战协定告终，但从严格意义上讲，陷入分裂的朝鲜半岛仍处于战争状态。
Over the years, when South Korea discovered the remains of hundreds of Communist soldiers in old battle sites, it kept them in a tucked-away, little-known temporary burial ground north of Seoul, until recently known as “the enemy cemetery.”
多年以来，韩国在战地遗址陆续发现这几百名共产党战士的遗骸时，把它们掩埋在了首尔以北一座鲜为人知的临时墓地。直到不久前，那里还被称作“敌军墓地”。
That it took six decades for the bodies of the fallen Chinese soldiers to return home bore testimony to political uneasiness rooted in a war that, while it long ago ended, was never formally put to rest.
这些阵亡的中国士兵遗骸在长达60年之后才回到祖国，这突显出朝鲜战争在政治上引发的的不安。因为虽然这场战争早已停止，但从未正式了结。
Between 1981 and 1989, North Korea accepted the remains of 42 Chinese soldiers from South Korea and handed them over to Beijing. But it has never been willing to negotiate for the return of its own fallen soldiers. Accepting their return home would be seen as a gesture of closing the war, which North Korea insists will not be over until Washington signs a peace treaty with it.
1981年到1989年间，朝鲜从韩国接收了42具中国士兵的遗骸，并把它们转交给了中国。但朝鲜一直不愿为移交朝鲜士兵遗骸举行谈判。如果朝鲜接收这些遗骸回国，外界会认为朝鲜同意结束战争，而朝鲜坚持认为，只有当华盛顿与其签署和平条约时，战争才算结束。
After accepting the remains of another Chinese soldier in 1997, North Korea refused to accept any more, leaving the 437 Chinese soldiers stranded in the inter-Korean deadlock.
1997年，朝鲜在接收了另一名中国士兵的遗骸之后，拒绝再接收其他遗骸，于是那437名中国士兵的遗骸便因为朝韩两国的僵持而滞留在了韩国。
A breakthrough came last June when President Park Geun-hye of South Korea visited China to cultivate warmer ties with China. She offered to send the Chinese remains home as a good-will gesture, and Beijing welcomed it.
去年7月，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)访问中国，意图加强韩国与中国的友好关系。至此，事情才出现转机。当时为了表示友好，她主动提出把那些士兵的遗骸送回中国，中国政府也对此表示欢迎。
“The repatriation today will be a landmark for the two countries in healing the trauma from the past and moving toward coprosperity,” Vice Defense Minister Baek Seung-joo of South Korea said during a ceremony held at Incheon International Airport, west of Seoul.
韩国国防部次官白承周(Baek Seung-joo)在首尔以西的仁川国际机场举行的仪式上说，“今天，遗骸回国将成为一个标志性的事件，代表两国正在愈合过去的创痛，走向共同繁荣。”
During the ceremony, the Chinese ambassador, Qiu Guohong, placed Chinese flags on dark brown boxes that contained the remains. Chinese soldiers carried them aboard a Chinese plane, which flew them to the Resist America and Aid Korea Martyrs Cemetery, the resting place for China’s Korean War dead, located in Shenyang, in northeastern China.
仪式中，中国驻韩大使邱国洪把中国国旗放在了装着士兵遗骸的深棕色盒子上。中国士兵抬着它们登上了一架中国飞机。随后，这架飞机带着他们飞往中国东北城市沈阳，那里设有抗美援朝烈士陵园，是丧生于朝鲜战争的中国士兵的安息之地。
China remains North Korea’s last remaining major ally, while the United States is South Korea’s No. 1 military ally. But China has overtaken the United States as South Korea’s biggest trading partner since it normalized relations with Seoul in 1992. Each year, millions of Chinese visit South Korea as tourists.
中国仍然是朝鲜最后的主要盟友，而美国是韩国最重要的军事盟友。然而，自从中韩两国于1992年实现邦交正常化后，中国已经取代美国，成了韩国最大的贸易伙伴。每年都有数百万中国人前往韩国旅游。
Still, the existence of Chinese remains, and the “enemy cemetery” itself, has drawn little attention in South Korea, even though some Chinese tourists began visiting it in recent years. Built on a hillside, it is difficult to find.
中国士兵的遗骸和“敌军墓地”本身在韩国没有引起多少关注，尽管一些中国游客最近几年开始参观墓地。墓地建在山坡上，很难找到。
Now with their Chinese companions gone, the remains of 770 North Korean soldiers stay marooned in the cemetery only a few miles south of the inter-Korean border, their forlorn grave markers emblematic of unresolved Cold War hostilities that still divide the Koreas. Their graves all face north, looking homeward, in contrast to the Korean tradition of aligning graves toward the south.
如今，中国士兵的遗骸已被移走，剩下的770具朝鲜士兵的遗骸仍留在这个位于朝韩边境以南几英里处的墓地当中，那些孤零零的墓碑象征着尚未消除的冷战敌对情绪，正是这种敌意致使朝鲜半岛依然处于分裂状态。他们的墓穴都朝向北方的家乡，而根据韩国的传统，墓穴应该朝向南方。
South Korea said it would continue to repatriate Chinese remains if it discovered more while excavating battle sites for its own war dead.
韩国表示，如果该国在战地遗址挖掘本国阵亡军人的遗骸时发现更多中国士兵的遗骸，韩国会将他们归还给中国。