BUSAN, South Korea — On Dec. 10, a handwritten, politically charged poster appeared on a bulletin board at Korea University in Seoul, one of the country’s top institutions of higher education. It began and ended with the same question: “How are you all doing?”
韩国釜山——12月10日，一张充满政治意味的手写海报出现在韩国最顶尖的高等学府之一、位于首尔的高丽大学(Korea University)的公告栏上。它以同一个问题开始和结束：“大家过得怎么样？”
This simple query hit a nerve. A photograph of the poster went viral on the Internet. Students across South Korea started posting their own political notices on campuses (and pictures of them, too, appeared online). High school students, office workers and housewives joined in, writing posters to air political grievances and posting them in public and on the web.
这个简单的问句切中了要害。这张海报的照片在互联网上疯狂流传。韩国各地的学生们开始在校园里张贴自己的政治海报（当然它们的照片也出现在网上）。高中生、上班族和家庭主妇也加入进来，纷纷制作海报表达政治上的不满，并把它们张贴在公共场所和网络上。
Echoing the plain bureaucratic style of political placards from the military dictatorship of Park Chung-hee — who ran the country from 1963 until his assassination in 1979, and who was the father of the current president, Park Geun-hye — the Korea University poster made references to a hodgepodge of hot-button political issues: the more than 4,000 rail workers who were laid off under a national privatization plan; a villager from Bora in the southeast who committed suicide in an apparent protest of government land grabs that are part of a nuclear-development project; and the National Intelligence Service’s alleged interference in the 2012 presidential elections.
高丽大学的这张海报，让人想起朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)军事独裁时期政治标语的那种平板官腔风格。朴正熙是现任总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的父亲，从1963年开始主政韩国直到1979年被刺杀。高丽大学的这张海报提及了一系列政治热点问题：一项全国性私有化计划令4000多名铁路工人被裁员；东南部博拉的一名村民用自杀来公开抗议政府强占土地兴建核能开发项目；以及韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)涉嫌干预2012年的总统大选。
Jeon Hyun-sik, 22, a student at Korea University, told The Hankyoreh daily newspaper that political posters usually urge people to do something. “But I was struck by how this one asked us how we’re doing,” he said. “I ended up thinking about myself and a lot of other things.” Another student, Lee Min-ji, a freshman in a Daejeon high school, criticized the television news in her poster, which went viral, asserting that it is slanted toward the government. A housewife’s poster at Korea University said that she was sorry she had taught her kids to focus so intently on making money.
22岁的高丽大学学生全玄植（Jeon Hyun-sik，音译）对《韩民族日报》(The Hankyoreh)说，政治海报通常会呼吁人们做一些事情。“但我感到震惊的是，这一张海报是询问我们过得怎么样，”他说。“结果我反思了自己以及其他很多事情。”大田市的高一学生李民吉（Lee Min-ji，音译）写的一张海报在网上广为流传，它批评电视新闻节目偏向政府。一位家庭主妇在高丽大学贴海报说，她曾教导孩子们过于专注在赚钱上，对此她感到很后悔。
Handwritten political posters — often composed in an artless and unadorned style, usually just words on plain white paper — were ubiquitous in South Korea in the 1970s and 1980s and were one of the few outlets available for expressing political views. Most posters were anonymous and put up under the cover of night. From time to time, the university authorities and the police would clear off the walls.
在韩国20世纪70年代和80年代，手写的政治海报几乎无处不在，其风格通常朴实无华，往往只是写着字的普通白纸。当时可以表达政治观点的渠道不多，手写海报就是其中之一。大多数海报都是匿名的，在夜色的掩护下张贴出来。大学管理层和警方会时不时地清理贴海报的墙壁。
The posters continued to appear in public even after full civilian rule was established in the early 1990s, but they started to feel outdated, more like mere graffiti than anything else. When I was a graduate student in the early 1990s, posters still covered sections of the campus walls, but like most students I ignored them.
即使到上世纪90年代初，韩国文职政府全面建成之后，这种海报也仍然出现在公众视野里，不过那时它们已经开始显得有些过时，更像是纯粹的涂鸦。90年代初，我还在读研究生时，校园围墙上仍有一些地方海报覆盖着海报，但我跟大多数学生一样，对它们视而不见。
Then along came the Internet. In the mid-1990s, web bulletin boards replaced handwritten posters, which began to disappear: People could hope for bigger ripple effects of their views online.
然后互联网出现了。90年代中期，网络公告栏取代了手写海报，后者开始逐渐销声匿迹：在网上发表意见有望造成更大的影响。
There were no fresh facts, shocking revelations or radical opinions in the poster that suddenly appeared last month at Korea University. But it did expose the worries of frustrated and disaffected young people who feel they’ve been left behind by globalization.
上个月突然出现在高丽大学的那张海报，其中没有不为人知的事实，令人震惊的真相，也没有激进的观点。但它确实展示了年轻人的担忧，这些沮丧而不满的年轻人觉得自己已经被全球化抛在了后面。
Economic concerns, like low salaries and high rents, are widespread. College students are angry about expensive tuition and dim employment prospects. Support for the rail workers, another common cause, reflects concerns among young people that the rail privatization plan will start a trend, leading to higher costs for utilities and health care as they too become privatized, and to the end of the era of the coveted permanent government job.
在海报中，对低工资、高租金等经济问题的担忧相当普遍。对于昂贵的学费和黯淡的就业前景，大学生们感到愤懑。支持铁路工人则是另一个常见的​​主题，反映了年轻人担心铁路私有化项目将引发一个趋势，导致公共事业和医疗保健服务在私有化进程中出现费用攀升，也会令人羡慕的公务员终身制时代告终。
The issue that seems to have most galvanized the poster writers is the scandal involving military and National Intelligence Service agents who carried out online campaigns during the 2012 presidential race to manipulate public opinion in favor of Park Geun-hye, who won the presidency by one million votes. Eleven officials in the Defense Ministry’s cyberwarfare unit are accused of spreading 2,100 messages praising Ms. Park. And, in a separate case, a team of N.I.S. agents is being tried for sending out millions of posts on Twitter and news websites in support of Ms. Park. The president has denied having had anything to do with the online campaigns, saying repeatedly that she had not benefited from them.
这张海报的作者最关注的问题，似乎涉及军方和情报院特工在2012总统大选期间开展网上宣传活动，操纵舆论支持朴槿惠的丑闻。朴槿惠后来以100万票的优势当选总统。韩国国防部网络战部门的11名官员，因散布2100条赞颂朴槿惠的留言受到指控。另外一个独立的案件涉及一组情报院特工在Twitter和新闻网站上发布数百万条支持朴槿惠的帖子。朴槿惠否认跟这些网上活动有任何关系，反复声明她并未从中受益。
The poster movement — a return to a more basic sort of expression — may best be seen as a backlash against an online culture that allows users to post whatever they want using false names or no names at all. Anonymity was once welcomed by political activists as a way to get opinions out in the open, but it has now come to be regarded as an obstacle to meaningful dialogue.
这次海报运动是向着更朴实的表达方式的一种回归，我们最好是把它看成互联网文化的反弹。在互联网文化中，用户可以使用假名或者干脆匿名发表任何内容。作为一种把意见公诸于众方式，匿名评论机制曾经受到政治活动人士的欢迎，但现在它已经被视为一种障碍，对有意义的对话构成了阻碍。
Most of the new posters are signed by real people. Ju Hyun-u, 27, who wrote the first poster at Korea University, said in a radio interview that he believed his poster went viral, in part, because it was authentic: He had signed it.
大多数新海报都有真人署名。27岁的李炫惠（Ju Hyun-u，音译）是高丽大学首张海报的制作者，他在接受电台采访时说，他认为这张海报之所以广为传播，部分原因是它很真实：他在海报上署上了自己的名字。
In the early 2000s, people expected that anonymity on the Internet would be positive for the development of democracy in South Korea. In a Confucian culture like South Korea’s, hierarchy can block the free exchange of opinions in face-to-face situations. The web offered a way around that.
21世纪初，人们认为互联网的匿名性对于韩国的民主进程具有积极作用。在像韩国这样的儒家文化国家，等级结构可能会妨碍人们面对面的自由交流。而网络避免了这个问题。
Internet portal services installed bulletin-board systems that allowed users to post opinions anonymously. For example, the popular service Agora was created as a forum for free — and often anonymous — exchanges. But South Koreans feel duped by the N.I.S. scandal and they partially blame anonymous commenting.
互联网门户服务提供了公告栏系统，让用户得以匿名张贴意见。例如，人气很高的服务Agora最初是一个供大家自由交流的论坛，人们在那里往往匿名发表意见。但韩国人觉得情报院丑闻欺骗了他们，并将其部分归咎于匿名评论机制。
It’s not yet known how much the poster movement will affect Ms. Park’s government. (The Kyunghyang Shinmun newspaper suggested a recent dip in the president’s approval ratings among young people could be a result of the handwritten poster wave, but there is no definitive data.) Regardless, the posters are getting politicians’ interest: Some even appeared in Congress, put up by both governing party and opposition members.
现在还不清楚，海报运动对朴槿惠政府会产生多大影响。（《京乡新闻》[Kyunghyang Shinmun]认为，朴槿惠在青年人中的支持率近期出现下降，可能就是这次手写海报运动的结果，但没有提供确切的数据。）无论如何，海报正在引起政界人士的兴趣：甚至执政党和反对派双方都有成员在国会贴出海报。
Political posters don’t by any means play the same role as they did under the military dictatorship. Still, it’s important that they have served to tip off some of the public to the swelling frustration and anger of the country’s youth.
这些政治海报扮演的角色，跟军事独裁统治时期的那些海报全然不同。不过，它们也起到了一个重要作用：让一些公众了解到了韩国青年日益增长的沮丧和愤怒。
Will the rest of the country get the message? We’ll have to wait and see.
韩国其他地方也了解这一点了吗？我们只能拭目以待。
One poster, signed by “Sunhae and Jooyoung” and posted at Busan University, ended with an apt quote from Martin Luther King Jr.: “History will have to record that the greatest tragedy of this period of social transition was not the strident clamor of the bad people, but the appalling silence of the good people.”
一张贴在釜山大学(Busan University)的海报署名为“善海和周永”（Sunhae and Jooyoung，音译），海报末尾恰如其分地引用了小马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King Jr)的一句名言：“历史将会记下，在这个社会转型期，最大的悲剧不是坏人的刺耳叫嚣，而是好人的骇人沉默。”