JINDO, South Korea — Prosecutors on Thursday officially attributed the sinking of a South Korean ferry to an improper stowage of cargo and a loss of stability caused by a change in the vessel’s design.
韩国珍岛——周四，韩国检方正式宣布，韩国渡轮的沉没应归咎于货物装载不当，以及由渡轮设计变动造成的稳定性缺陷。
As of Thursday evening, 184 of the ship’s 476 passengers were confirmed dead, and 118 remained missing. Two-thirds of the passengers were second-year students from Danwon High School in Ansan, south of Seoul.
截至周四晚间，船上476名乘客中已有184人被确认死亡，还有118人依然下落不明。三分之二的乘客是高二学生，来自首尔以南的安山市檀园高中(Danwon High School)。
Prosecutors investigating why the ship suddenly listed and overturned cited several causes: a sharper-than-recommended turn it made while passing through a strong current; the recent addition of cabins in the upper decks that made the ship top-heavy and impaired its ability to right itself after tilting; and an improper securing of vehicles, shipping containers and other cargo that allowed the items to come loose and slide to the side, further damaging the ship’s ability to recover its balance.
负责调查渡轮为何突然倾斜并倾覆的检察官给出了几个原因：渡轮在通过湍急水流时转向过猛，超出了合理幅度；新近加在上层甲板的额外舱室导致船顶过重，并削弱了渡轮倾斜后调正船身的能力；船上所载车辆、集装箱和其他货物固定不当，导致货物松动，滑向一边，进一步破坏了船只恢复平衡的能力。
Until now, prosecutors had cited each of these factors as possible causes, based on documents and interviews with shipping company officials. But on Thursday, Ahn Sang-don, a senior prosecutor in charge of the investigation, officially cited them as causes of the disaster.
在此之前，根据文件和对航运公司管理人员的询问，控方已表示以上各条因素均可能是导致渡轮沉没的原因。不过，负责调查案件的高级检察官安尚敦（Ahn Sang-don，音）于周四正式提出，是前述所有因素导致了此次海难。
He said investigators were still looking for other potential causes, such as whether the ferry, the Sewol, was overloaded when it set sail from Incheon, a port west of Seoul, on April 15, bound for the resort island of Jeju. The ship was carrying cargo from dozens of companies, and investigators were following up with them to determine the weight and composition of the load.
他说，调查人员依然在寻找其他可能因素，比如“世越号”（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）是否超载。该船于4月15日从首尔以西的港口仁川出发驶往度假胜地济州岛，船上载有数十家公司的货物，调查人员正在追查这些货物，以了解装载重量和构成。
Grief-stricken relatives of the dead and missing have blamed the captain and crew of the ship for the loss of life, and have blamed Korean officials at all levels for the slow pace of the recovery operation.
死者和失踪者的家属悲痛欲绝，纷纷指责船长和船员是杀害乘客的凶手，并且指责韩国各级官员，称他们导致打捞行动进展缓慢。
Parents stormed a temporary command center for rescue operations late Thursday. Some mothers slapped the man in charge there, Choi Sang-hwan, the deputy head of the Korea Coast Guard, blaming him for leaving the students to be “food for the fish.” As blows landed on his face, Mr. Choi did not resist, and police officers did not intervene.
周四晚间，学生家长们冲击了救援行动临时指挥中心。指挥中心负责人、韩国海岸警卫队(Korea Coast Guard)副队长崔相焕（Choi Sang-hwan，音）挨了数位母亲的耳光，后者指责他让学生们“喂了鱼”。崔相焕被打时没有反抗，警察也没有干预。
Later, Kim Seok-kyun, the head of the coast guard, and Lee Ju-young, the minister of oceans and fisheries, arrived at the scene at the Paengmok port on the southern coast of this island. Parents surrounded them in a sit-in protest, demanding that the officials speed up the rescue operations.
之后，韩国海岸警卫队队长金锡均（Kim Seok-kyun，音）和海洋水产部部长李柱英（Lee Ju-young，音）抵达了位于珍岛南岸彭木港的指挥中心现场。家长们围住二人举行了静坐抗议，要求官方加快救援行动进度。
Four more crew members of the ship were arrested on Thursday, bringing the number arrested to 11. Those arrested so far include the ship’s captain, Lee Jun-seok, and all four of its lower-ranking officers. They face various criminal charges, including accidental homicide. They were among the first to flee the ship, while most of the passengers were trapped inside.
周四，又有四名船员被捕，被捕船员人数由此增加到了11名。迄今为止，被捕的有船长李俊锡(Lee Jun-seok)和所有四名低一级的船员。他们面临包括过失杀人罪在内的多项刑事指控。他们在事发时率先逃离渡轮，尽管大多数乘客还困在船里。
Prosecutors indicated that investigators were expanding their inquiry into the ship’s owner, safety inspectors, regulators and coast guard radio dispatchers who were accused of not responding quickly enough to the ferry’s trouble.
检方暗示，调查人员正把调查范围扩展至渡轮所有方、安全巡视员、监管者和海岸警卫队无线电调度员，后者被指责在渡轮出事时，没有及时做出应对。
On Thursday, prosecutors raided two shipping watchdogs, the Korea Shipping Association and the Korean Register of Shipping. They also raided the home of Yoo Byung-un, the head of the family that owns Chonghaejin Marine, the company that operated the ferry. They seized another ferry owned by the company that had a design similar to the Sewol’s to collect possible evidence of safety violations.
周四，检方搜查了两家航运监管机构，分别是韩国航运协会(Korea Shipping Association)和韩国船级社(Korean Register of Shipping)。他们还搜查了渡轮经营方清海镇船运公司(Chonghaejin Marine)所属家族当家人俞炳彦(Yoo Byung-un)的住宅。为了收集渡轮可能违反安全规定的证据，检方扣押了该公司旗下的另一艘渡轮，其设计和“世越号”相似。
“We will investigate malpractice in the entire shipping industry,” Song In-taek, a senior prosecutor, told reporters.
“我们会全面调查航运业的渎职行为。”高级检察官宋仁泽（Song In-taek，音）对记者说。
At the Paengmok port, parents gathered in a white tent, exhausted and dejected, waiting for the arrival of coast guard ships bearing the bodies of passengers that divers had found in the sunken ship. No survivor has been found in the past eight days.
在彭木港，家长们聚集在一座白色帐篷里，精疲力尽、情绪低落地等待海岸警卫队的舰船，船上载有潜水员在沉船上发现的乘客尸体。过去八天，搜寻人员没有发现任何幸存者。
In another tent nearby, parents identified decomposing bodies wrapped in brown cloth. The place was off-limits to reporters, but soon the wailing was heard.
在附近的一座帐篷里，家长们正在辨认裹在褐色织物里的腐烂尸体。记者被禁止进入那片区域，但那里很快就传来了哭声。
“My child! My child!” one mother cried repeatedly.
一名母亲反复哭喊，“我的孩子！我的孩子！”