SEOUL, South Korea — Two men have died of Middle East respiratory syndrome in South Korea, officials said Thursday. Theirs were the third and fourth confirmed deaths in what has become the largest outbreak of the virus outside the Middle East.
韩国首尔——韩国官员周四称，又有两名男子死于中东呼吸综合征（Middle East respiratory syndrome，简称MERS）。这是该病毒在中东以外的地方最大规模的爆发，这两名男子也是此轮疫情中的第三和第四例确认死亡病例。
As fear spread, the government of President Park Geun-hye was accused of not doing enough to contain the outbreak and of endangering the public by withholding information about it.
随着恐惧的蔓延，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)领导的政府被指未采取足够的措施控制疫情，并因隐瞒疫情信息而危及公众。
At a news conference on Thursday, the influential mayor of Seoul, Park Won-soon, castigated the national authorities for not disclosing that a doctor at a Seoul hospital who was quarantined on Sunday with symptoms of the syndrome, known as MERS, had attended a gathering of more than 1,500 people in the southern part of the city only the day before.
在周四的一场新闻发布会上，位高权重的首尔市长朴元淳(Park Won-soon)严厉批评中央政府，因为首尔一家医院的一名医生在周日因MERS症状被隔离的前一天，曾参加过一场有1500多人参加的集会，但中央政府没有披露这一消息。
More than 1,160 schools and kindergartens in South Korea have been shut down temporarily, and many Koreans are wearing surgical masks in public.
韩国已有1160多所学校和幼儿园暂时停课，很多韩国人在公开场合戴医用口罩。
The government said in a statement that an 82-year-old man, who was otherwise unidentified, had died on Wednesday, and that a posthumous test had shown he was infected with the MERS virus, making his the 36th confirmed case in South Korea. The man was the third fatality from the virus after two patients had died on Monday. In a statement early Friday, the government announced the fourth death: a 76-year-old man who it said died on Thursday.
政府在一则声明中称，一名82岁的男子在周三去世，且死后对其进行的检测显示，他感染了MERS病毒。这是韩国的第36例确诊病例。声明未透露这名男子的其他信息。他也是死于该病毒的第三名患者。在此之前的周一，已有两名患者死亡。政府在周五凌晨发布的一则声明中宣布了第四例死亡病例：一名76岁的男子。声明称该男子死于周四。
The government also said that five more people had tested positive, bringing the total number of MERS cases in South Korea to 41.
政府还表示，又有五人检测呈阳性，使韩国的MERS病例总数增至41例。
The Health Ministry had announced earlier on Thursday that the doctor whom the Seoul mayor cited was the country’s 35th confirmed case and that he had caught the virus from a patient he treated on May 27, but the ministry did not mention the gathering he had attended, which was for people interested in buying apartments in a housing project.
韩国保健福祉部在周四早些时候宣布，首尔市长提到的那名医生是该国的第35例确诊病例。他是从5月27日救治的一名患者那里感染上病毒的，但该部未提到他参加的那次集会。参加该集会的是一些有意在某住宅楼盘购买公寓的人。
“It increased the possibility that the virus spread and infected more people,” Mr. Park, the Seoul mayor, said, calling the development a “grave situation.” He added that city officials had begun telephoning all those who had attended the gathering to ask them to quarantine themselves.
“此事增加了病毒扩散并感染更多人的可能性，”首尔市长朴元淳说，并称这一事态发展“形势严峻”。他接着表示，首尔市的官员已开始致电所有参加了该集会的人，让他们自行隔离。
The government said it had shared information about the doctor with Seoul officials and planned to reach people who attended the gathering to give them advice on how to detect symptoms.
政府表示，它已与首尔官员分享了关于这名医生的信息，并打算联系参加过此次集会的人，就如何发现症状为他们提供建议。
The 82-year-old man apparently caught the virus in a hospital, where he was being treated for asthma and pneumonia in late May. A new patient placed in his room was later found to be carrying the virus, and three others who stayed in the room have since tested positive, but an earlier test did not find the virus in the 82-year-old man, officials said; he was under quarantine for further observation when he died.
那名82岁男子似乎是在一家医院感染这种病毒的。5月末，他在那里治疗哮喘和肺炎。官员称，人们后来发现，被安排在他那间病房里的一名新患者是这种病毒的携带者，曾在这间病房里待过的其他三人的病毒测试都呈阳性，但是较早的一次测试并没有在这名82岁男子身上发现这种病毒；他离世时正在隔离状态下接受进一步观察。
Most of the cases reported in South Korea are believed to have been in hospitals in Gyeonggi Province, which surrounds Seoul. The cases include staff members, patients and visitors. The government has refused to name the six hospitals in Gyeonggi and nearby cities where the patients were infected.
韩国上报的大多数病例，据信都来自首尔周边的京畿道的医院。病例涉及工作人员、患者和访客。政府拒绝指明患者是在京畿道和附近城市的哪六家医院受到感染的。
Health officials have raced to track down anyone who may have come into contact with patients known to have the virus, and have isolated more than 1,660 people in their homes or at state-run facilities to see if they develop symptoms.
卫生官员在以极快的速度追查所有可能与携带病毒的患者有接触的人，而且目前已经隔离了1660余人。有人被隔离在自己家中，有人在官方设施接受隔离，这样做是为了观察他们是否会出现相关症状。
Worries about the virus appear to have spread to North Korea as well. On Thursday, the South Korean government said that the North had asked to borrow heat-detecting cameras to help screen South Korean factory managers as they commute to an industrial park run jointly by the two countries in the North Korean border city of Kaesong. In the complex, 54,000 North Koreans work in 124 factories run by the South.
对这种病毒的担心似乎也蔓延到了朝鲜。周四，韩国政府称，朝鲜提出了借用热成像仪的请求，希望能在朝鲜边境城市开城的两国联营工业园里，对前来的韩国管理人员进行扫描检查。在那个工业园区，共有5.4万名朝鲜人在为韩国经营的124座工厂工作。
The South Korean government said it would lend three of the cameras to the North, as it did in November, when North Korea tightened inspections at ports and airports and closed its borders to foreign tourists to guard against the Ebola virus.
韩国政府称，与去年11月一样，它将借给朝鲜三台这种热成像仪。当时，为了抵抗埃博拉病毒，朝鲜加强了港口和机场的安全检查，并且禁止外国游客入境。