SEOUL, South Korea — South Korean prosecutors said Monday that they were seeking to arrest former President Park Geun-hye on charges of bribery and abuse of power and other criminal charges.
韩国首尔——周一，韩国检察官员表示，他们打算以受贿罪和滥用职权罪等刑事罪名逮捕前总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)。
Whether they can arrest Park, who was removed from office in a historic court ruling this month, will depend on whether the Seoul District Court will issue an arrest warrant. If arrested, Park would be the first former South Korean leader put behind bars since two former military dictators were imprisoned on corruption and mutiny charges in the mid-1990s.
他们能否逮捕朴槿惠将取决于首尔地方法院(Seoul District Court)是否签发逮捕令。本月，一场历史性的法庭裁决罢免了她的总统职位。如果被捕，朴槿惠将成为1990年代中期两名前军事独裁者因腐败和叛国罪入狱以来首位被监禁的前韩国领导人。
On Monday, prosecutors formally asked the court for the warrant. It usually takes several days before the court studies evidence and decides whether an arrest warrant is justified.
周一，检察机关正式请求法院签发逮捕令。法院通常需要几天时间研究证据，决定是否签发。
Prosecutors have been discussing whether they have enough evidence to apply for an arrest warrant since they questioned her for more than 20 hours last week.
上周检察官对她进行了超过20个小时的问讯，此后他们一直在讨论是否有足够的证据申请逮捕令。
On Monday, prosecutors accused Park of conspiring with a longtime confidante, Choi Soon-sil, to collect tens of millions of dollars from big businesses, including more than $38 million in bribes from the South Korean electronics giant Samsung. Both Choi and Samsung’s top executive, Lee Jae-yong, have been arrested and indicted on bribery and a number of other criminal charges.
周一，检察官们指控朴槿惠与其多年的密友崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)合谋，收取了大企业数千万美元的贿赂，包括来自韩国电子巨头三星的3800万美元。崔顺实和三星高管李在镕(Lee Jae-yong)已经被捕，并因贿赂罪等刑事罪名遭到起诉。
When they indicted Choi and Lee, prosecutors had already identified Park as a criminal accomplice.
检察官们起诉崔和李时，已经将朴确定为共犯。
“The suspect abused her power by using her tremendous status and authority as president to help collect funds from businesses,” prosecutors said in a statement on Monday, explaining why they thought she needed to be arrested. “Although there have been a number of pieces of evidence collected, the suspect has denied most of them and there is a danger of her destroying incriminating evidence if she is not arrested.”
“嫌疑人利用自己身为总统的崇高地位和权威滥用职权，帮​​助收取来自企业的资金，”检察官在周一的一份声明中说。并解释了他们为什么认为需要逮捕她。“虽然我们收集了一些证据，但嫌疑人否认了大部分证据，如果不逮捕她，她就有可能毁掉罪证。”
On Dec. 9, the National Assembly voted overwhelmingly to impeach Park on charges of corruption and abuse of power, and she was formally removed from office on March 10.
去年12月9日，韩国国会(National Assembly)以压倒性多数票弹劾朴槿惠，理由是腐败和滥用职权。今年3月10日，她被正式罢黜。
Since she took office in early 2013, Park had been dogged by allegations that Choi was influencing government affairs from the shadows — and using her connections with the president for personal gain.
自从2013年初朴槿惠上任以来，关于崔暗中干预政府事务以及利用与总统的关系谋取私利的指控，一直困扰着她。