SEOUL, South Korea — A hostile, nuclear-armed neighbor with heavy artillery aimed at their capital. Cronyism in government. Corruption in business.
韩国首尔——一个拥有核武器、心怀敌意的邻国用重型火炮瞄准他们的首都。政府任人唯亲。企业腐败。
These issues and more are weighing on South Koreans as they head to a presidential election Tuesday. But much of the campaign has revolved around a wild card, one the candidates are fighting to prove they are uniquely equipped to handle: President Donald Trump.
在下周二即将迎来总统大选之时，包括这些在内的诸多问题沉重地压在韩国人的心头。但这场竞选主要围绕着一个无法预料的因素，也是几位候选人都在极力证明唯有自己才能应对的问题：唐纳德·特朗普总统。
In his first months in office, Trump’s contradictory statements about the Korean Peninsula have shattered South Koreans’ image of the U.S. leader as a symbol of stability in their 60-year alliance with Washington.
在上任第一个月里，特朗普就朝鲜半岛问题发出的前后矛盾的言论，就已经打碎了韩美结盟60年以来，美国领导人在韩国人心目中作为稳定象征的形象。
Trump has threatened to end what he called a “horrible” free-trade agreement with South Korea. He has said the country should pay for an advanced U.S. missile defense system, contradicting an earlier commitment from Washington. He has warned of a “major, major conflict” with North Korea, while also saying he would be “honored” to meet with the North’s leader, Kim Jong Un, under the right circumstances.
特朗普威胁要终结他所说的与韩国达成的“糟糕的”自由贸易协议。他还表示，这个国家应该为一套先进的导弹防御系统付费，这与华盛顿早前的承诺相悖。他警告美国与朝鲜之间可能会发生“很大很大的冲突”，同时又表示如果能和朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)在适当的情况下会面，他将“深感荣幸”。
How to manage “the Trump risk,” as local news media put it, has become a major campaign issue. The candidates are falling over themselves to show they would be the best at handling him, either by drawing him closer or by being tougher.
正如当地新闻媒体所说，如何把控“特朗普风险”已经成为一个重要的竞选议题。候选人在想方设法地展示自己会是对付他的最佳人选，不管是把他拉近，还是采用更强硬的态度。
“National security has become a dominant election issue this year thanks largely to Trump,” said Koh Yu-hwan, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul. “Whether he intended it or not, Trump ended up intervening in the South Korean election.”
“国家安全成为一个首要竞选议题，这在很大程度上是因为特朗普的缘故，”首尔东国大学(Dongguk University)研究朝鲜问题的教授高有焕(Koh Yu-hwan)说。“不管是有意还是无意，特朗普最终介入了韩国的大选。”
At the least, many South Koreans fear a rift in the close relationship with Washington. At worst, some fear Trump could do something impulsive, like ordering a military attack on North Korea, with little regard for the devastation it would cause here in the South.
不少韩国人担心，至少与华盛顿的紧密关系会出现裂缝。而最糟糕的情况是特朗普采取冲动的举措，比如下令对朝鲜发起军事攻击，几乎不考虑这样的举动会给韩国带来什么样的灾难。
The leading conservative candidate, Hong Joon-pyo, sought to calm jitters by swearing that if he is elected, he will hold a summit meeting with Trump aboard the Carl Vinson, the aircraft carrier Trump recently dispatched to Korean waters in a show of force against the North.
主要的保守派候选人洪准杓(Hong Joon-pyo)试图以承诺来安抚紧张不安的情绪，即如果当选，他将与特朗普在卡尔文森号航空母舰上举行首脑会议——为了向朝鲜彰显自己的力量，美国最近将这艘航母派遣到了朝鲜半岛水域。
Ahn Cheol-soo, a centrist, has pushed what he sees as his advantage over other candidates: He and Trump both went to the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. He says that connection will help him build rapport with Trump.
走中间路线的安哲秀(Ahn Cheol-soo)着力突显他自视优于其他候选人的地方：他和特朗普都曾在宾夕法尼亚大学沃顿商学院(Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania)读书。他表示，这种关联将有助于他和特朗普建立融洽的关系。
Moon Jae-in, the Democratic Party candidate, who surveys project will be the winner, has also vowed to meet Trump in one of his first acts as president. But he indicated that he would be more confrontational. He has said that instead of avoiding friction with Washington, South Korea should “learn to say no.”
民意调查项目显示有望获胜的民主党(Democratic Party)候选人文在寅(Moon Jae-in)也做出了承诺，称与特朗普会面将是他当选总统后率先采取的行动之一。但他暗示自己的立场会更加强硬。他表示，韩国应该“学会说不”，而非避免与华盛顿产生摩擦。
He and many South Korean voters have been outraged by Trump’s recent suggestion that their country pay $1 billion for a missile-defense battery the United States installed last week. Moon told a cheering crowd at a campaign rally this week, “Which candidate can do a proud diplomacy, saying what we need to say to the Americans?”
他和许多韩国选民都对特朗普最近的一项提议感到愤慨，即韩国应该为美国上周安装的一套导弹防御系统支付10亿美元。文在寅在本周举行的一场竞选集会活动上对欢呼的人群讲道，“哪位候选人可以展开有骨气的外交，向美国人说出我们需要说的话？”
Moon represents liberal political forces in South Korea who say that under its conservative and pro-American leaders, the country’s alliance has become too “hierarchical” and too “tilted” in Washington’s favor. Liberals have also called for dialogue with North Korea, saying that Trump was wasting his time if he was waiting for China to enforce U.N. sanctions forcefully enough to stop the North’s nuclear program.
文在寅代表着韩国的自由派政治力量，他们认为在保守派和亲美国的领导人之下，韩国的盟友关系已经变得太“尊卑分明”，太“倾斜于”华盛顿一方。自由派还呼吁与朝鲜进行对话，称如果特朗普干等着中国执行联合国的制裁措施，从而令朝鲜停止核武器项目，那只是白白浪费时间。
Moon seeks to bring back a version of the “Sunshine Policy,” under which South Korea promoted dialogue and economic exchanges with the North from 1998 to 2008 to help build trust and lessen Chinese influence on the northern half of the divided peninsula.
文在寅试图重新采取一种“阳光政策”。在这一政策下，韩国在1998年至2008年间推动与朝鲜的对话和经济交流，帮助建立了彼此的信任，也减弱了中国对这个分裂半岛的北半部的影响。
Those on the left view the Trump administration’s talk of a “military option” against the North as dangerous.
左派人士认为特朗普政府有关对朝鲜采取“军事行动”的言论十分危险。
Trump’s rough diplomacy could shake a delicate balance in northeast Asia, prompting South Korea to redefine its alliance with Washington and move closer to China, analysts say.
分析人士表示，特朗普的强硬外交可能会打破东北亚脆弱的平衡，促使韩国重新定义它与华盛顿的盟友关系，与中国走得更近。
During his campaign, Trump irked South Koreans by repeatedly accusing them of getting a free ride in their national defense and not paying enough for the U.S. military presence here. After his election, he sent top aides, including Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, to reaffirm that he was with the South Koreans “100 percent.”
在竞选期间，特朗普曾多次指责韩国在国防上搭美国的便车，称韩国没有给美国驻军支付足够的费用，这令韩国人十分恼怒。当选之后，特朗普派包括国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)在内的多名高层助手前往韩国，重申他“百分百”站在韩国人的一边。
But he also hurt their national pride by saying Korea used to be “a part of China.” Some accused Trump of ignoring their country when he discussed North Korea with President Xi Jinping of China and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan on April 24 but called no one in Seoul.
但他说韩国过去是“中国的一部分”，也伤及了他们的民族自豪感。有人指责特朗普在4月24日与中国国家主席习近平和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)通话谈讨论朝鲜问题，却没有给首尔的任何人打电话，称这是对韩国的无视。
Last month, Trump’s administration stepped on a hot-button election issue in South Korea by pushing ahead with the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or THAAD.
上个月，特朗普政府推进末端高空防御系统（erminal High Altitude Area Defense，简称萨德）的部署，触及了韩国一个非常敏感的竞选议题。
Conservative candidates like Hong called for an early deployment to guard against North Korean missiles, even though China threatened retaliation against South Korea if it allowed the powerful U.S. radar on its doorstep.
保守派候选人洪准杓呼吁尽早部署该系统，以防朝鲜实施导弹袭击，尽管中国威胁称，如果韩国允许这个强大的美国雷达出现在中国的家门口，它将对韩国进行报复。
Moon repeatedly warned that Washington should postpone the deployment to give the next South Korean government time to review it, as his liberal supporters accused the United States of foisting the system on them.
文在寅多次告诫华盛顿推迟部署该系统，好让下届韩国政府有时间重新对它进行评估，他的自由派支持者则指责是美国将该系统强加于韩国。
Last week, not only did the United States push ahead with the deployment, but Trump also said South Korea should pay for THAAD, contradicting an earlier agreement that Washington would pay for the system and Seoul would provide the land and basic infrastructure. (On Sunday, the White House national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, called his South Korean counterpart, Kim Kwan-jin, and “the two reconfirmed what has already been agreed” about the system’s costs, Kim’s office said in a statement.)
上周，美国不仅推进了部署行动，特朗普还表示韩国应该为萨德支付费用，这与早前达成的华盛顿出钱、首尔负责提供土地和基础设施的协议相违背。（上周日，白宫的国家安全顾问、陆军中将H·R·麦克马斯特[Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster]给韩国政府的国家安全顾问金宽镇[Kim Kwan-jin]打了电话，“两人再次确认了之前”就系统费用问题“达成的协议”，该消息来自金宽镇办公室发布的一份声明。）