SEOUL, South Korea — Prosecutors brought murder charges on Thursday against the captain and three other crew members of a ferry that capsized off South Korea’s southwest coast last month, leaving 304 people dead or missing. Lee Jun-seok, the captain, was among 15 crew members of the 6,825-ton ferry Sewol who had been arrested on various criminal charges, including accidental homicide. They were accused of fleeing their ship while making little effort to save hundreds of passengers who had been told to stay inside the vessel. Their behavior has outraged many South Koreans.
韩国首尔——周四，检察官对上个月在韩国东南海岸倾覆的渡轮的船长及其他三名船员提出了谋杀指控，那次海难导致304人死亡或失踪。失事船只是名为“世越号”（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）的6825吨渡轮，船长李俊石(Lee Jun-seok)及其他14名船员已因包括过失杀人在内的多项指控遭到逮捕。他们被控几乎未做任何努力挽救数百名乘客就弃船逃生，乘客当时被通知待在船内。他们的行为让许多韩国人义愤填膺。
On Thursday, while indicting the 15 crew members, prosecutors brought more serious murder charges against four of them: Mr. Lee; two ship’s mates, Kang Won-sik and Kim Young-ho; and the ferry’s chief engineer, Park Gi-ho.
周四，在起诉15名船员时，检方对其中四人提出了更为严重的谋杀指控，他们是李俊石、担任大副的康元植（Kang Won-sik，音译）和金永浩（Kim Young-ho，音译），以及渡轮的首席工程师朴吉镐（Park Gi-ho，音译）。
Before he was jailed, Mr. Lee told reporters that he did give an order to evacuate the passengers. But it remained unclear whether such an order, even if issued, was delivered to passengers who were huddled inside the ship after the crew had repeatedly told them to stay inside the dangerously listing ferry.
被关押之前，李俊石曾对记者说，当时他确实发出了疏散乘客的指令。不过，即使他确曾发出指令，但目前仍不清楚该指令是否传达到了乘客那里，乘客当时在船里挤作一团，因为船员曾一再要求他们待在业已危险倾侧的渡轮里。
The four were charged with murder because they were only “thinking about their own lives” and “did not exercise their duty of aid and relief” in a crisis where it was clear that the people on board would die without their help, the senior prosecutor, Ahn Sang-don, told reporters on Thursday.
高级检察官安尚敦(Ahn Sang-don)在周四对记者说，这四名船员之所以被控谋杀，是因为他们仅仅“考虑自己的性命”，在危机中“没有履行救援职责”，而当时的情况十分明显，如果没有他们的援助，船上的人只有死路一条。
If convicted on the charges, the four could face the death penalty. Prosecutors have been investigating the causes of the ship’s sinking on April 16, which left 284 people dead and 20 missing in one of the country’s worst disasters in decades. Of the dead and missing, 250 were high school students on a school trip.
如果罪名成立，四人可能会被判死刑。检方一直在调查渡轮在4月16日沉没的原因，这是韩国数十年来最惨重的一场灾难，导致284人死亡，20人失踪。在死者和失踪者当中，有250人是参加学校集体旅游的高中生。
On Thursday, prosecutors said the Sewol’s ability to right itself after tilting had been grossly compromised when it set sail from Incheon, a port west of Seoul, to the southern resort island of Jeju on April 15. It had loaded 2,142 tons of cargo, twice the legal limit, and had not properly secured it.
“世越号”于4月15日从首尔西边的港口仁川前往南部度假胜地济州岛。检方周四表示，启航之时，该船倾斜后恢复平衡的能力已遭大幅削弱。渡轮载有2142吨货物，是法定限重的两倍，并且没有对货物进行妥善的固定。
To accommodate the excess cargo, the ferry had also pumped out hundreds of tons of water from its ballast tanks at its bottom, which further undermined its stability, they said.
检方称，为了容纳超额货物，该渡轮还从底部的压载舱中抽出了数百吨水，进一步削弱了船体的稳定性。
The ferry lost its balance while making a sharper-than-usual turn in waters notorious for rapid currents. At the time, the least experienced of the ferry’s four mates was in charge of its navigation while the captain was in his room.
驶入一片因急流而出名的水域时，该渡轮进行了幅度逾常的急转弯，由此失去平衡。船长当时待在自己的房间里，掌舵的是经验最少的大副，船上共有四名大副。
Prosecutors have arrested five officials at the ferry’s operator, Chonghaejin Marine Company, on charges of overloading the ship and neglecting safety measures.
检方已经逮捕了渡轮经营方清海镇海运公司(Chonghaejin Marine Company)的五名官员，罪名是超载及忽视安全措施。
They have also tried, in vain, to interrogate the family of Yoo Byung-eun, a church leader and retired businessman. Mr. Yoo’s two sons control Chonghaejin through a holding company. Prosecutors have tried to determine whether the family illegally used the ferry operator and other businesses to accumulate a fortune, but the family members have ignored their summons.
他们还曾尝试讯问教会领袖、退休商人俞炳彦(Yoo Byung-eun)的家人，但最终徒劳无获。俞炳彦的两个儿子通过一家控股公司掌控清海镇海运公司。检方曾尝试确定该家族是否曾通过清海镇等公司非法聚敛财富，但该家族的成员无视他们的传唤。
Hundreds of worshipers belonging to the Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea, where Mr. Yoo remains an influential founding member, rallied on Thursday, calling prosecutors’ investigation a “witch hunt” or “religious persecution.”
周四，韩国基督教福音浸礼会(Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea)数以百计的教徒举行了集会，称检方的调查属于“政治迫害”或“宗教迫害”。俞炳彦是该教会的创始会员，至今仍对该教会颇具影响力。
They built a blockade in front of a church retreat in Anseong south of Seoul, where Mr. Yoo is believed to be holing up.
这些教徒在安城一处教会产业的前方设置了路障，外界认为那里是俞炳彦的藏身处。安城位于首尔以南。