SEOUL, South Korea — South Korean authorities arrested a former president on Friday on charges of bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion, the country’s second former leader to be imprisoned within the past year.
韩国首尔——周五，韩国当局以收受贿赂、挪用公款、逃税罪名将一名前总统逮捕，这是该国在过去一年内第二位被捕入狱的前领导人。
Lee Myung-bak, who was president from 2008 to 2013, was taken to a prison in the capital, Seoul, after a court issued an arrest warrant. Local television stations carried live coverage as prosecutors escorted him from his home in Seoul and took him to jail shortly after midnight.
在一家法院签发了逮捕令后，2008年至2013年间担任韩国总统的李明博(Lee Myung-bak)被带往韩国首都首尔的一所监狱。当地电视台对韩国检方在午夜后不久将其从首尔家中押送入狱的过程进行了现场直播。
His arrest came a year after his successor, former President Park Geun-hye, was arrested following her parliamentary impeachment on bribery and other criminal charges. The two former leaders are being held in separate prisons.
在李明博被捕的前一年，其继任者、前总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)刚刚因收受贿赂及其他刑事指控遭国会弹劾被捕。两位前领导人被关押在不同的监狱。
“I consider all this my own fault and feel remorse,” Mr. Lee, 76, said in a handwritten statement posted on Facebook shortly before his arrest.
“我认为这一切都是我自己的过错，并深感自责，”76岁的李明博在被捕前不久发表于Facebook上的一封手写声明中说道。
South Korea’s current president, Moon Jae-in, won an election to replace Ms. Park last May with promises to root out corrupt ties between politics and business that have bedeviled the country for decades.
韩国现任总统文在寅于去年五月当选，以接替朴槿惠，他承诺将铲除困扰韩国数十年的政商腐败关系。
In recent weeks, state prosecutors have questioned or arrested several of Mr. Lee’s former aides as well as relatives and businessmen as they built their case against the former president. Mr. Lee, a former Hyundai executive, has long been dogged by allegations of corruption, and his arrest had been expected since he was summoned and questioned by prosecutors last week.
最近几周在对这位前总统提起诉讼时，韩国检方问讯或逮捕了数名李明博的前任助手、亲属及商人。曾任现代(Hyundai)高管的李明博长期受腐败指控困扰，在上周被检方传唤讯问后，遭到逮捕已是预料之中。
Mr. Lee was accused of collecting more than $10 million in bribes from various sources when he was a presidential candidate and after he took office.
李明博被指在作为总统候选人期间及上任以后，通过多种渠道收取了超过1000万美元的贿赂。
Prosecutors say that Mr. Lee hid his ownership of a lucrative auto-parts maker in the name of relatives and embezzled $32 million from the business. Mr. Lee was also accused of using his presidential power to help settle a legal case implicating the auto-parts company, getting a business conglomerate to pay $5.8 million in lawyer fees, they said.
检方称，李明博借亲戚之名实际控制了一家利润颇丰的汽车零部件制造企业，并挪用了3200万美元的公司资金。检方表示，李明博还被指利用总统权力促成一起涉及该企业的诉讼和解，并让某企业集团为此支付了580万美元的律师费。
Almost all of South Korea’s presidents have seen their reputations tarnished toward the end of their tenure or during their retirement because of corruption scandals involving them, their relatives or aides. Mr. Lee is the fourth former president to have been arrested on corruption charges since the 1990s.
在任期行将结束时或在退休期间，韩国几乎所有总统都会因牵扯其自身、亲友或助手的贪腐丑闻而声誉扫地。自1990年代以来，李明博是第四位以贪腐罪名被捕的前总统。
The former military dictator Chun Doo-hwan was sentenced to death and his friend and successor, Roh Tae-woo, was sentenced to 22½ years in prison on bribery, mutiny and sedition charges in 1996. Both of their sentences were later reduced, and they were pardoned and released in 1997.
1996年，前军事独裁者全斗焕(Chun Doo-hwan)因收受贿赂、军事叛乱和煽动罪名被判死刑，其朋友和继任者卢泰愚(Roh Tae-woo)被判处22年零6个月有期徒刑。两个判决后来都有所减轻，他们于1997年被赦免释放。
Ms. Park, who succeeded Mr. Lee in 2013, became the first South Korean president to be impeached by Parliament. That vote in December 2016 followed weeks of huge demonstrations fueled by accusations that she was involved in a corruption scandal. She was formally removed from office and arrested last March.
于2013年接替李明博的朴槿惠成了韩国首个被国会弹劾的总统。朴槿惠被指控卷入贪腐丑闻，激起了连续数周的大型示威游行，弹劾投票随即于2016年12月进行。去年三月，她被正式解职并遭到逮捕。
Last month, prosecutors asked a Seoul court to sentence Ms. Park to 30 years in prison on charges of collecting or demanding $21 million in bribes from big businesses. A three-judge panel is scheduled to announce its ruling on Ms. Park on April 6.
上个月，检方要求首尔法院判处朴槿惠30年有期徒刑，罪名为收取、索要大型企业贿赂2100万美元。一个由三名法官组成的合议庭预计将于4月6日宣布对朴槿惠的裁决。
In the wake of Ms. Park’s impeachment, critics attributed the recurring corruption scandals at the center of political power in South Korea to what they called the unbridled power of its “imperial presidency.” On Thursday, Mr. Moon’s government unveiled a bill to revise the Constitution to curtail presidential power.
在朴槿惠遭到弹劾后，批评人士将韩国政治权力中心内反复出现的贪腐丑闻指向了他们所谓的“帝王总统”不受约束的权力。周四，文在寅政府推出了一项修改宪法的议案以限制总统权力。
In his proposed constitutional revision, Mr. Moon suggested that the current, single five-year presidential term be replaced with a four-year term and that the incumbent leader be allowed to seek another term. But Mr. Moon cannot benefit from the proposed revision and cannot seek re-election.
文在寅在他提出的宪法修正案中建议，将目前每届总统的五年任期改为四年，并允许现任总统连任一届。但文在寅并不能从提出的这项修改中受益，也不能谋求竞选连任。
The proposed revision deprives the president of the right to name the chief of the country’s Constitutional Court, handing that decision over to the court’s justices. It also reduced the president’s power in appointing commissioners of the government watchdog Board of Audit and Inspection. It also curtailed the president’s power to grant special pardons, which critics said has long been abused to free business tycoons convicted of bribery and other white-color crimes.
拟议的修正案剥夺了总统提名韩国宪法法院(Constitutional Court)院长的权力，并将该决定权移交给了法院法官。此外还减少了总统任命政府监察机构韩国监察院(Board of Audit and Inspection)长官的权力。它还限制了总统发布特赦令的权力，批评人士表示该权力长期被滥用，使商业巨头免于被判贿赂及其他白领犯罪罪名。
But Mr. Moon will find it hard to pass his bill through Parliament. His governing party has only 121 seats there, well short of the 195 votes needed for a constitutional revision. Even if the bill is approved by lawmakers, it is also subject to referendum.
但文在寅将很难在国会通过该法案。他的执政党在国会只有121个席位，远少于修宪需要的195票。即使该法案获得议员批准，也还需等待全民公投。