SEOUL, South Korea — Hopes rose and then were crushed on Tuesday when South Korean officials reported, and then retracted, the finding of human bones from the ferry Sewol, which sank nearly three years ago, killing more than 300 people.
韩国首尔——希望燃起，然后又破灭。韩国官员先是宣布在“世越号”(Sewol)中发现了人的遗骨，之后又收回了这一说法。这艘渡轮在大约三年前沉没，导致300多人死亡。
When officials announced at a news briefing that they had found what they “believed were the bones of a missing person,’’ relatives of the nine passengers still missing, who have never given up hope of finding the remains of their loved ones, broke into tears.
当官员们在一场新闻发布会上宣布他们找到了“据信属于一名失踪人员的骸骨”时，九名仍在失踪状态的乘客的亲属失声痛哭。他们从来不曾放弃找到至爱遗骸的希望。
But hours later, the authorities withdrew the announcement.
但几小时后，当局推翻了之前的说法。
In a brief statement sent to journalists, they said that the bones were not from a human but from “an animal.’’ Some local news reports said the bones belonged to a pig.
他们在给记者们提供的简短声明中表示，这些不是人的骨头，而是“动物”的。据当地的一些媒体报道，这些骨头来自一头猪。
Hopes of recovering the missing passengers have risen since the 6,825-ton ferry was finally lifted from the sea bottom last Thursday.
自从这艘载重6825吨的渡轮上周四从海底被吊起后，找到失踪乘客的希望便随之燃起。
The Sewol, structurally unbalanced and overloaded, capsized and then sank off the southwest coast of South Korea on April 16, 2014. The underwater search of the ferry ended after divers recovered the 295th body, a high-school girl, from one of the ship’s restrooms on Oct. 28, 2014.
2014年4月16日，结构失衡且超载的“世越号”在韩国西南海岸倾覆，之后沉没。2014年10月28日，潜水员们从这艘船的一个洗手间里找到了第295具尸体——一名高中女生，之后便停止了水下搜寻工作。
After the ferry was raised last week, it was positioned on its side on a large barge-like vessel as salvage crews drained it before taking it to a nearby port for a closer inspection.
上周打捞起来的渡轮被倒放在一艘类似驳船的大船上。打捞人员先将船里的水吸干，之后再运到附近的一个港口，进行更进一步的检查。
On Tuesday, they found six bones, a shoe and other personal items, which had apparently washed out of the ferry as it was being drained.
周二，他们发现了六块骨骸，一只鞋及其他一些个人物品，这些显然是从船里往外抽水时被带出来的。
Government forensic experts were sent to the scene to collect the remains.
政府的法医专家被派往现场收集遗骸。
Most of the victims were students from Danwon High School in Ansan, south of Seoul, who had boarded the ferry for a trip to an island. The nine who are still missing include four students and two teachers from the school.
这些死难者大多为首尔以南的安山市檀园高中(Danwon High School)的学生，他们当时是乘这艘渡船前往一座海岛旅游。依然处在失踪状态的九人包括这所学校的四名学生和两名老师。
The sinking, one of the country’s worst disasters, was a deeply traumatizing experience for South Koreans.
这艘渡船的沉没是这个国家出现的最严重的事故之一，是一个给韩国人造成极大创伤的经历。
When the Sewol capsized, its crew members were among the first to flee, after repeatedly telling passengers to stay in their cabins. As the ship slowly went under, teenagers trapped inside sent text messages begging for help or saying goodbye to their families.
“世越号”翻船时，船上的工作人员是最早逃离的人。离开之前，他们反复向乘客交代，让他们留在自己的船舱里。随着船慢慢没入水中，困在里面的青少年们纷纷发短信求助，或向家人告别。
Confusing news reports and official announcements at the time added to South Koreans’ pain over the disaster. Local news outlets initially reported that all on board the Sewol had been rescued. And the government kept releasing conflicting information on the number of people on board and the number of those rescued.
当时发出的令人迷惑的新闻报道和官方通告，加重了这场灾难给韩国人带来的痛。当地新闻机构最初报道称，“世越号”上的所有人都已获救。政府则在船上人数和被救人数方面持续释放相互矛盾的信息。
Bereaved families had demanded that the ship be salvaged, hoping that the bodies of the missing would be found inside.
失去亲人的家庭要求将这艘船打捞起来，希望可以在里面找到失踪人员的尸体。
“Eun-hwa! Hang in there just a bit more, so we can go home together,” Lee Geum-hee said in tears on Tuesday, throwing yellow roses into the sea. Her daughter, Cho Eun-hwa, a Danwon student, was one of the nine missing.
“恩华！再多坚持一下，我们就可以一起回家了，”周二李锦熙（Lee Geum-hee，音）一边将黄色的玫瑰花扔进海里，一边流着泪说道。她的女儿、檀园高中的学生赵恩华（Cho Eun-hwa，音）是那九名失踪人员之一。
Around the time the bones were found, Ms. Lee and others with missing relatives joined emotional religious services on a boat near the Sewol, during which Catholic pastors, Protestant ministers and Buddhist monks prayed for the recovery of the nine’s remains.
在那些骨骸被发现时，李锦熙和其他失踪人员家属参加了在靠近“世越号”的一艘船上举行的感人的宗教仪式。在那期间，有多名天主教神父、新教牧师和佛教僧侣祈祷能找到那九个人的遗骸。
“Please support us until I can hold my daughter’s hands and finally go home,” said Park Eun-mi, the mother of another missing student, Heo Da-yun, according to pool reports by South Korean journalists at the scene.
“请支持我们，直到我能握着女儿的手，和她一起回家，”据多名韩国记者现场报道，另一名檀园高中失踪学生的母亲朴恩美（Park Eun-mi，音）这样说道。
Ever since the ferry’s sinking, relatives of the missing have camped out at a nearby pier, in hopes that their loved ones’ remains would eventually be found. On Tuesday, friends and supporters of the families gathered there and released yellow balloons into the sky wishing for a successful recovery.
自渡轮沉没之后，失踪人员的家属一直附近的一处突堤露宿，希望最终能找到至爱的遗骸。周二，这些家属的朋友和支持者聚集在那里，将黄色的气球放飞到天空，许下成功找到失踪者的愿望。