SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye of South Korea urged Japan on Sunday to have the “courage and honesty” to admit to its historical wrongdoings against Koreans and other Asians, including its enslavement of Korean women in military brothels during World War II.
韩国首尔——周日，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)敦促日本拿出“勇气和诚实”，承认历史上对韩国及其他一些亚洲国家犯下的罪行，包括在二战期间强迫韩国妇女在军妓所遭受奴役的做法。
“As Germany and France overcame conflict and mutual enmity and became leaders in building a new Europe, it is time for South Korea and Japan to write a new history together,” Ms. Park said in a nationally televised speech. “But despite their geographical proximity, the two nations could not get close in heart because of tensions surrounding historical issues.”
“德国和法国克服了分歧和相互的敌意，成为打造新欧洲的领袖，韩国和日本现在也应该共同书写新的历史，”朴槿惠在通过电视向全国播放的演讲中说。“然而，由于围绕着历史问题的冲突，尽管两国在地理上相互临近，却无法拉进心灵的距离。”
Ms. Park delivered her speech to mark the 96th anniversary of the March 1, 1919, uprising against Japan’s colonial rule of Korea, which lasted from 1910 until Japan’s defeat in World War II in 1945. South Korean leaders have traditionally delivered a speech on March 1, a national holiday, often railing against Japan while urging reconciliation with North Korea.
朴槿惠发表此次演讲的当天，是1919年3月1日的朝鲜半岛反抗日本殖民统治运动爆发96周年纪念日。日本对该半岛的殖民统治开始于1910年，一直持续到1945年日本在二战中战败。这个纪念日被定为全国假期，韩国领导人一般会在当天发表演讲，内容通常是谴责日本，并敦促与朝鲜达成和解。
Relations between South Korea and Japan have soured considerably in recent years. South Koreans have complained that under its nationalist prime minister, Shinzo Abe, Japan has intensified its territorial claim to a set of islets held by South Korea and revised textbooks to glorify its history of aggressions in the early 20th century and to promote patriotic education.
最近几年，韩日关系急剧恶化。韩国抗议，在奉行民族主义的首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)治下，日本强化了对韩国控制的一小片岛屿的领土主张，并篡改了教材，以美化日本20世纪初的侵略历史，推行爱国主义教育。
For their part, many Japanese have accused South Korea of being unreasonable by repeatedly demanding an apology they felt their country had already given over the sufferings of its neighbors, including the so-called comfort women, a euphemism that Imperial Japan used to refer to numerous Korean and other Asian women who historians said were forced or cheated into sexual slavery for its World War II military.
许多日本人则指责韩国反复要求道歉是无理要求。他们觉得日本已经为自己对邻国造成的苦难道了歉，包括在“慰安妇”问题上。日本帝国用这一委婉说法指代在二战期间为该国军人充当性奴的韩国和其他一些亚洲国家的妇女。历史学家称，这些女性受到了强迫或诱骗。
On Sunday, Ms. Park criticized Japan’s reluctance to address what she called an urgent historical need to bring justice to these women. South Korea demands the Japanese government’s formal apology and compensation for the women, while Japan insists that the issue was settled in the 1965 treaty the two countries signed to establish diplomatic ties. Ms. Park has refused to hold a summit meeting with Mr. Abe, and talks between the two governments have produced no breakthrough on the issue.
朴槿惠在周日指责日本不愿正视她所说的迫切的历史需求，为这些女性伸张正义。韩国要求日本政府就慰安妇问题正式道歉，并给予赔偿，而日本则坚称两国在1965年签订协议建立外交关系时已经解决了这一问题。朴槿惠一直拒绝与安倍晋三举行峰会，两国政府之间的谈判也没有给该问题带来突破。
“This year alone, two of the old women passed away with no healing of their sufferings,” Ms. Park said, noting that the average age of the remaining 50 known South Korean comfort women was close to 90. “Time is running out to restore dignity to their lives.”
“仅在今年，就有两名年长的受害人在伤口没有抚平的情况下离开人世，”朴槿惠说。“为她们恢复名誉所剩时间不多。”她指出，尚在人世的50名韩国慰安妇的平均年龄接近90岁。
On Sunday, Ms. Park launched a pointed criticism of Mr. Abe by citing an American historian, Alexis Dudden of the University of Connecticut, who recently told the South Korean news media that the Japanese leader was “a politician who would openly supplant long-proven histories with preferred national memories.”
周日，朴槿惠还援引美国康涅狄格大学(University of Connecticut)历史学者亚力克西斯·杜登(Alexis Dudden)的话对安倍晋三提出尖锐批评。杜登近期告诉韩国新闻媒体，安倍晋三是“一名会公开用自己偏爱的国家记忆来替代早就获得证实的历史的政客”。
Ms. Dudden and 18 other American historians issued a statement last month to protest what they called the Japanese government’s attempts to censor history textbooks both in Japan and elsewhere about comfort women. The statement was prompted in part by Japan’s request to McGraw-Hill, the American publishing house, to revise one of its history textbooks, “Traditions and Encounters,” to correct “errors” about the women. The publisher refused.
杜登等19名美国历史学者上个月发表声明表示抗议，他们称日本政府试图在日本乃至他地方屏蔽历史教科书中有关慰安妇的内容。促使他们发表声明的部分原因是，日本要求美国出版公司麦格劳-希尔(McGraw-Hill)修改历史教材《新全球史：传统与交流》(Traditions and Encounters)，改正其中有关慰安妇的“错误”。该公司对此予以了拒绝。