SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea on Tuesday proposed holding high-level talks with North Korea on their border next week, a day after North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, suggested inter-Korean dialogue to discuss easing military tensions and his country’s participation in the Winter Olympics in the South.
韩国首尔——在朝鲜领导人金正恩建议举行朝韩对话，讨论缓解军事紧张局势，以及朝鲜参加韩国举办的冬季奥运会事宜的一天后，韩国周二提议下周与朝鲜举行高层会谈。
Cho Myoung-gyon, the South’s point man on the North, proposed that the two Korean governments hold their meeting next Tuesday in Panmunjom, a village straddling the inter-Korean border north of Seoul, the South Korean capital.
韩国负责朝鲜事务的官员赵明均(Cho Myoung-gyon)提议，两国政府下周二在板门店举行会谈。板门店是位于韩国首都首尔以北的朝韩边界上的一个村子。
“We hope the two sides sit down for frank talks,” Mr. Cho, the unification minister, said in a news conference.
“我们希望双方坐下来坦诚交谈，”韩国统一部部长赵明均在记者会上说。
If the North responds positively, it will set in motion the first official dialogue between the two Koreas in two years. South Korean officials hope the talks will lead to a thaw on the divided peninsula after years of high tensions and threats of war over the North’s pursuit of nuclear weapons. But analysts cautioned that a sudden move to improve ties between the two Koreas could strain relations between Seoul and Washington.
如果朝鲜对此做出积极回应，这将开启两年来朝韩之间的首次正式对话。韩国官员希望，会谈将带来双方关系的解冻。多年来，朝鲜寻求核武器的努力，让分裂的朝鲜半岛处于紧张局势和战争威胁之下。但分析人士警告说，朝韩关系的突然改善，可能会让首尔与华盛顿之间的关系变得紧张。
Panmunjom has long served as a contact point for the two Koreas, with both sides exchanging messages through a telephone hotline there. But the North has not used the hotline since Mr. Moon’s conservative predecessor, the impeached President Park Geun-hye, shut down a joint industrial complex in the North Korean town of Kaesong in early 2016.
板门店一直是朝韩进行联系的地方，双方通过那里的一条热线电话交换信息。但自从文在寅的保守派前任、被弹劾的朴槿惠总统在2016年初关闭了设在朝鲜开城的一个联合工业园区之后，朝鲜一直没有使用过这条热线。
On Tuesday, Mr. Cho urged the North to restore the hotline so that both sides could discuss the agenda for the high-level talks. The two governments held their last high-level dialogue in December 2015.
周二，赵明均敦促朝鲜恢复使用这条热线，以便双方可以讨论高层会谈的议程问题。朝韩双方进行的上一次高层对话是在2015年12月。
North Korea’s offer to send a delegation to the Winter Olympics, which are to begin in February in the South Korean town of Pyeongchang, represented a breakthrough for President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, a dogged champion of dialogue and reconciliation with the North.
朝鲜提出派团参加今年2月在韩国城市平昌举行的冬奥会，这对韩国总统文在寅来说是个突破，他一直在与朝鲜对话及和解上进行着不懈的努力。
Mr. Moon has repeatedly urged North Korea to join the Pyeongchang Olympics, hoping it would ease the military tensions over the North’s nuclear and missile programs. Mr. Moon said that the North’s participation would compel the two Koreas to open talks, which he hoped would lead to broader negotiations, involving Washington and others, for the North’s denuclearization.
文在寅曾多次敦促朝鲜派团参加平昌冬奥会，希望这能缓解朝鲜的核计划和导弹项目造成的军事紧张局势。文在寅说，朝鲜参加冬奥会将迫使朝韩双方举行公开会谈，他希望这种会谈能导致包括华盛顿在内的其他各方就朝鲜无核化问题展开更广泛的谈判。
After ignoring Mr. Moon for months, calling his South Korean government an American stooge, Mr. Kim used his New Year’s speech on Monday to embrace the South Korean leader’s overture.
几个月来，金正恩一直对文在寅的建议不予理睬，称文在寅的韩国政府是美国傀儡，但他突然在周一发表的新年致辞中接受了韩国领导人的提议。
“I appreciate and welcome the North’s positive response to our proposal that the Pyeongchang Olympics should be used as a turning point in improving South-North relations and promoting peace,” Mr. Moon said early Tuesday, instructing his cabinet to move swiftly to open dialogue with North Korea.
“我欣赏并欢迎朝鲜对我们的提议做出的积极回应，我们建议应该将平昌奥运会作为改善南北关系、促进和平的一个转折点，”文在寅在周二早些时候说，他指示他的内阁迅速采取行动，开启与朝鲜的对话。
With barely 40 days before the Olympics, the two Koreas must swiftly sort out logistics and other details for North Korean athletes if they are allowed to participate, officials said.
官员说，距离冬奥会开幕式只有40天的时间了，如果朝鲜运动员获准参加的话，朝鲜和韩国必须迅速地为这些运动员的后勤和其他细节做出安排。
South Korea has proposed that the North Korean athletes travel through the 2.5-mile-wide Demilitarized Zone, the world’s most heavily fortified border, a route that would be rich in symbolism. It also wants to discuss the possibility of the two Korean delegations marching together in the Games’ opening ceremony. It also wants to know whether the North plans to send a cheering squad.
韩国已提议，让朝鲜运动员穿越约四公里宽的非军事区。这是世界上戒备最森严的边界，穿越这条边界将具有丰富的象征意义；韩国还希望讨论双方代表团在冬奥会开幕式上一起入场的可能性；韩国也想知道朝鲜是否打算派来啦啦队。
If the North participates in the Games and the two Koreas march together, it would be a milestone in inter-Korean relations.
如果朝鲜参加冬奥会，而且双方运动员一起入场的话，这将是朝韩关系史上的一个里程碑。
Strong ethnic nationalism compels people in one Korea to cheer for the other in competition with any other country, especially Japan, which once ruled the Korean Peninsula as a colony. The potential implications of millions of Koreans cheering together could be huge — a prospect that could further advance Mr. Moon’s policy of promoting dialogue and exchanges with the North and creating a thaw after years of tensions spurred by the North’s nuclear and missile tests.
在强烈的民族主义的驱使下，韩国人或朝鲜人在来自朝鲜半岛的运动员与任何其他国家的运动员、尤其是曾经统治朝鲜半岛的日本运动员比赛时，为他们喝彩。数以百万计的朝鲜半岛人民一起欢呼雀跃，其潜在影响可能是巨大的——这可能会进一步推动文在寅提倡的与朝鲜进行对话交流的政策，并可能促成两国关系的解冻。朝鲜的核试验和导弹试验已让半岛的局势紧张了许多年。
In 2000, the year the two countries held their historic first summit meeting, their delegations marched together at the opening ceremony of the Sydney Olympics. They again marched together at the 2004 Athens Olympics, using the single name “Korea” and carrying a “Korea is one” flag. But they competed separately in 2000 and 2004.
在2000年，朝韩举行了双方历史上的首次峰会，两国的体育代表团在悉尼奥运会开幕式上曾一起步入会场。在2004年的雅典奥运会上，两国的运动员再次一起入场，用的是不分南北的“Korea”这个单一称呼，高举着“朝鲜半岛是一家”的旗帜。但两国运动员在2000年和2004年的奥运会上分别代表各自的国家参加了比赛。
North Korea also sent squads to cheer for its athletes in international events in South Korea in 2002, 2003 and 2005.
在2002、2003和2005年韩国举办的国际比赛上，朝鲜还派了啦啦队去为本国运动员加油助威。
But such scenes came to an end after the conservatives took power in the South in 2008 and instituted tougher measures against the North’s nuclear weapons development.
但是，在韩国保守派政党2008年上台、对朝鲜发展核武器采取了更严厉的措施之后，上述情景消失了。
In June, Mr. Moon, whose election in May ended the years of conservative rule, said he hoped to see the national teams of the two Koreas march together again in Pyeongchang.
去年6月，文在寅当选总统，结束了保守派政党多年的执政。文在寅当时表示，希望能看到朝韩两国的运动员在平昌再次一起入场。
But the coming talks with North Korea over its Olympic participation could be a testing ground for Mr. Kim’s intentions.
但是，就朝鲜参加冬奥会的问题将要举行的会谈，可能是金正恩意图的一个试验场。
While proposing to send an Olympic delegation, Mr. Kim on Monday said South Korea should end its regular joint military exercises with the United States and stop letting the Americans bring bombers and other nuclear-capable military assets into the Korean Peninsula. Mr. Moon has suggested that South Korea and the United States could postpone their joint military drills until after the Olympics.
周一，金正恩在提出要派团参加冬奥会时说，韩国应该停止其与美国的定期联合军事演习，停止让美国将轰炸机及其他具有核能力的军事装备部署在朝鲜半岛。文在寅已提议，韩国和美国可能会把他们的联合军演推迟到冬奥会结束之后。
Mr. Kim also demanded that South Korea stop joining the American-led campaign to squeeze North Korea with sanctions. Instead, he said the South should work together with the North to bring peace to the Korean Peninsula, while boasting that his nuclear weapons would prevent the Americans from starting a new war in Korea.
金正恩还要求韩国停止参与美国主导的制裁朝鲜行动。他说，韩国不该参与制裁，而应该与朝鲜一起，为朝鲜半岛带来和平而努力。同时，金正恩还夸口说，他的核武器会阻止美国人在朝鲜半岛发动新的战争。
Analysts said Mr. Kim was using the North’s Olympic participation to try to drive a wedge in the alliance between South Korea and the United States and between Mr. Moon and President Trump. Mr. Trump has voiced a much tougher stance against the North, focusing on pressure and sanctions and once dismissing Mr. Moon’s efforts for dialogue with the North as “appeasement.”
分析人士说，金正恩在利用朝鲜参加冬奥会这件事，来试图离间韩国与美国的盟友关系，以及文在寅与特朗普总统的关系。特朗普曾表示对朝鲜采取更强硬的立场，强调施压和制裁，还曾把文在寅与朝鲜对话的努力视为“绥靖”。
Faced with increasingly harsh sanctions and desperate to rejuvenate his country’s economy, Mr. Kim was seeking an “exit” from his predicament by cultivating ties with South Korea, the South’s Unification Ministry said in an analysis of Mr. Kim’s speech.
韩国统一部在对金正恩的讲话进行分析时说，金正恩面临着日益严厉的制裁，迫不及待地要振兴本国经济，他通过与韩国建立关系来寻找摆脱困境的“出路”。
Mr. Cho said on Tuesday that the South was closely consulting with Washington on its dealings with the North.
赵明均周二表示，韩国正在就与朝鲜往来的问题与美国政府进行密切磋商。