South Koreans will choose a new president on Tuesday in a vote that will turn on several crucial issues: relations with North Korea and the United States; economic inequality; and the enduring power of the country’s family-controlled conglomerates, known as chaebol. Here’s how these issues are playing out in the election.
周二，韩国人将投票选举新总统，围绕此次大选的几个关键问题分别为：与朝鲜的关系及与美国的关系，经济的不平等，以及韩国由家族控制的、被称为财阀的企业集团的恒久力量。下面是这些问题是如何表现在此次大选中的。
Handling North Korea
处理朝鲜问题
Under the current conservative government, South Korea has taken a confrontational approach toward the North, engaging in military exercises with the United States off the peninsula and participating in tightening sanctions over the North’s missile and nuclear weapons programs. But the candidate leading in the polls, Moon Jae-in, has said he is open to a dialogue with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, over the nuclear issue, a sharp break with recent policy. Mr. Moon, the candidate for the Democratic Party of Korea, says sanctions alone are not enough to persuade the North to freeze and then dismantle its nuclear programs.
目前，在保守派政府领导下，韩国一直对朝鲜采取对抗态度：与美国一起在朝鲜半岛水域进行军事演习，参与针对朝鲜导弹和核武器计划的越来越严格的制裁。但是，在民调中领先的候选人文在寅表示，他对与朝鲜领导人金正恩在核问题上进行对话持开放态度，这与韩国最近的政策有很大偏离。文在寅是韩国共同民主党的候选人，他表示，制裁本身不足以说服朝鲜冻结、进而废除其核计划。
One of his rivals, Hong Joon-pyo, the candidate for the Liberty Korea Party, has said that a government under Mr. Moon would be too soft on North Korea. Mr. Hong says he is the true representative of conservatives, who favor close ties to the United States, and is calling for “armed peace” that supports the status quo of being tough on North Korea.
文在寅的竞争对手之一、自由韩国党候选人洪准杓说，文在寅领导的政府会在朝鲜问题上太软弱。洪准杓说，他是保守派的真正代表，保守派喜欢与美国保持密切关系，呼吁“武装和平”，即支持以强硬态度对待朝鲜的现状。
U.S. Relations
与美国的关系
A defining issue has been the current government’s acceptance of an American antimissile system on South Korean soil to guard against missile attacks from the North. Mr. Moon’s main opponents — Mr. Hong and Ahn Cheol-soo, a centrist who represents the People’s Party — have expressed support for the deployment of the system, called the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system, or Thaad. Mr. Moon, by contrast, has called the system’s recent deployment “very regrettable” and in a book published recently said South Korea should learn to “say no to the Americans.”
现届政府接受的在韩国土地上部署用以防止朝鲜导弹袭击的美国反导弹系统是一个决定性的问题。文在寅的主要对手——洪准杓、以及代表国民之党的中间派候选人安哲秀——都表示支持“末端高空区域防御系统”（Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system，简称“萨德”）的部署。与这两人不同，文在寅称这个系统的最近部署“非常令人遗憾”，他在前不久出版的一本书中说，韩国应该学会“对美国人说不”。
Corporate Corruption
企业腐败
The impeachment and recent removal from office of President Park Geun-hye in an influence-peddling case underline the strong influence of the chaebol in the upper reaches of government. Similar scandals have failed to curb the power of these family-controlled conglomerates.
前总统朴槿惠因身陷一个以权谋利的案件遭到弹劾，并在不久前被解除了总统职位，该案凸显了财阀对政府最高层的强大影响力。类似的丑闻未能遏制这些家族控制的集团的权力。
As in the past, most candidates have promised legislation to make the chaebol more transparent and to make it harder for chairmen to help their children amass fortunes through dubious but lucrative deals involving their companies. Mr. Moon wants to give minority shareholders more power in electing board members of such conglomerates, which, he says, could ultimately dilute the families’ control over the chaebol. Mr. Ahn, the centrist, has been similarly critical, suggesting that the government’s Fair Trade Commission should have more power to regulate the chaebol.
和过去一样，大多数候选人都承诺要通过立法让财阀更透明，让财阀的董事长们更难帮助他们的孩子通过涉及自家企业可疑、但有利可图的交易获得大笔财富。文在寅要让小股东在选举这些企业集团的董事会成员时有更大的权力，他说，这样做最终会稀释这些家族对财阀的控制权。中间派的安哲秀也对财阀有类似的批评，他提出，应该赋予政府的公平交易委员会更多的权力来约束这些财阀。
Mr. Hong, the conservative, has colorfully pledged to rid the country of corruption by putting it through a washing machine. He wants to crack down on the power of labor unions and is candid about favoring the chaebol because of their importance in the economy.
保守派的洪准杓曾用颇为生动的语言承诺，要像用洗衣机洗东西那样，清洗韩国的腐败。他表示要压制工会的权力，并直言不讳地支持财阀，因为它们对经济来说很重要。
Economic Inequality
经济不平等
The youth unemployment rate, for people 25 to 29, reached 8.2 percent in November, its highest level since 1999, raising questions about the country’s ability to create jobs for recent college graduates.
韩国25岁至29岁的青年人失业率在去年11月达到了8.2%，为1999年以来的最高水平，这引起了人们对国家为近期大学毕业生创造就业机会能力的质疑。
Mr. Moon has vowed to create 810,000 jobs in the public sector and raise taxes for the wealthy. But Mr. Ahn, an entrepreneur, has said that plan would be too costly. He has instead focused on the private sector, saying “companies underpin growth of the country while creating jobs.” He wants to guarantee employment for young people for five years, while promising wages at small companies that would be comparable to what they could earn at conglomerates.
文在寅誓言要在公共部门创造81万个工作岗位，并让富人缴纳更多的税。但是，企业家出身的安哲秀说，文在寅的计划将会很昂贵。安哲秀更偏重私营部门，他说，“公司在创造就业机会的同时，为国家的经济增长打下基础。”他想为年轻人提供五年的工作保障，同时承诺让人们在小公司拿到的工资与他们在大型企业集团能赚到的相当。