SEOUL, South Korea — In a culture in which funerals are often lavish three-day affairs with hundreds of guests, the recent funeral for Song In-sik was modest at best. It had only one guest — an activist who volunteered to hold a ritual for a person he had never met.
韩国首尔——在一种葬礼通常要大办三天，到访宾客数以百计的文化中，前不久宋仁植（Song In-sik，音）的葬礼最多只能被称为简朴。现场只有一位客人，一名自愿为素未谋面的他举办葬礼的活动人士。
The activist, Park Jin-ok, placed a table of fruit, dried fish and artificial flowers before the refrigerated unit that held Mr. Song’s remains in the morgue of Sungae Hospital in Seoul. He burned incense and bowed, before the impatient mortuary director asked him to pack up and leave.
宋仁植的遗体存放在首尔圣爱医院(Sungae Hospital)的太平间里。在遗体冷藏柜前，名为朴进玉（Park Jin-ok，音）的这位活动人在桌子上放了水果、鱼干和人造花。在他焚香鞠躬后，不耐烦的太平间主任让他收拾东西离开。
Mr. Song, 47, died in July, his body was found three days after his death, decomposing in his rented room. He was lucky to get even a makeshift funeral. A growing number of South Koreans are dying alone with no relative willing to claim their remains and perform a ritual Koreans believe is essential to easing the deceased’s passage to the other world.
47岁的宋仁植死于7月，三天后他的遗体才在出租屋里被发现，当时已开始腐烂。他能有一场临时葬礼已算幸运。韩国人认为，葬礼仪式对减少逝者去往另一个世界的困难必不可少。但越来越多的韩国人临死时孑然一身，没有亲戚愿意认领遗体，为他们举办葬礼。
The surge in so-called lonely deaths — to 1,008 last year from 682 in 2011, according to government statistics — provides a small but poignant glimpse of how South Korea’s long-cherished traditional family structure is changing. Though South Koreans have mostly benefited from a strong economy in recent decades, families have come under strain from economic and demographic upheaval.
政府统计数据显示，所谓的孤死者从2011年的682人，激增至去年的1008人。这让人们能一窥韩国那历来受到重视的传统家庭结构正在发生变化的心酸景象。近几十年来，尽管韩国人大多从强劲的经济中受益，但家庭却承担了经济和人口巨变带来的压力。
“Those falling behind get increasingly lonely because, unlike the poor of the old days, they see their communities destroyed for urban redevelopment,” said the Rev. Kim Keun-ho, a Christian pastor who has been working among Seoul’s dwindling hilltop slum neighborhoods, known as “moon towns.” “The poor and old have nowhere to go.”
“落在后面的人越来越孤独，因为不像过去的穷人，他们眼看着自己的社区因城市改造被毁，”基督教牧师金根浩（Kim Keun-ho，音）说。“穷人和老人无处可去。”首尔建在山顶的贫民窟社区日渐缩小，金根浩一直在这些被称作“月亮城镇”的社区工作。
“A society that lets its poor and abandoned die alone and leave without a funeral is itself dying at its heart,” said Mr. Park, whose organization Nanum & Nanum is one of a handful of civic groups that hold simple funerals for those who die alone. “They spend their last days fearing their remains will be treated like trash.”
“一个社会，如果任由穷人和被遗弃者孤零零地死去，并且连葬礼都没有，那么它本身的核心也在死去，”朴进玉说。他所在的组织Nanum & Nanum是少数几个为死去时没有旁人在场的人举行简单葬礼的民间团体之一。“在生命的最后几天，他们一直担心自己的遗体会被人当做垃圾。”
The activists say that one of the greatest fears of the poor is to die without being given a proper funeral — the ultimate sign of life on the margins.
这些活动人士称，穷人最害怕的事情之一是死后没有正经的葬礼。这是生活在边缘地带的根本标志。
In South Korea, a family’s standing in the community is measured and flaunted during a loved one’s funeral, by how many guests honor the invitation and how long they stay. Hundreds of relatives, friends and former colleagues may show up at a funeral hall, bowing before the deceased’s portrait, nestled in a bed of freshly cut white chrysanthemums.
在韩国，一个家庭在其所在社区的地位，是通过亲人葬礼期间应邀到场的宾客人数，以及他们停留的时间来衡量和炫耀的。成百上千的亲戚、朋友和前同事可能会来到灵堂，面对摆放在新摘的白色菊花中的逝者遗像鞠躬致哀。
Guests often sit on the floor, chatting — some lingering overnight — while the family plies them with food and drink. Long lines of wreaths with silky ribbons bearing their senders’ names spill out of funeral halls, and guests often bring cash in envelopes to help the family with expenses. The government tries to limit how much public servants can accept or donate, fearing corruption.
来客通常会坐在地上聊天——部分人会通宵待在那里——家属则会不断为他们提供食物和饮料。一排排花圈常常延伸至灵堂外，上面的丝带上写着送花圈者的姓名。客人通常还会送上装着现金的红包，帮助逝者家人支付开销。因为害怕滋生腐败，政府试图限制公务员接收和捐赠的金额。
But for poor South Koreans, such an event is out of reach. Some cannot even retrieve their relative’s body.
但对韩国的穷人来说，这种场面可望而不可及。一些人甚至都无法取回亲人的遗体。
“Especially in the case of elderly people living alone or the homeless, survivors in the low-income class don’t claim the family member’s corpse because of the economic burden of a funeral,” said Kim Jae-ho at the Korea Institute for Health and Social Affairs.
“特别是涉及独居老人或无家可归的人时，处于低收入阶层的亲人会因为葬礼的经济负担而不认领家族成员的遗体，”韩国健康与社会事务研究所(Korea Institute for Health and Social Affairs)的金载浩（Kim Jae-ho，音）说。
Caught off-guard, the government is scrambling to strengthen the social safety net, but benefits remain paltry.
目前，猝不及防的政府正在匆忙加强社会安全保障，但相关福利仍然微不足道。
The 2015 Melbourne Mercer Global Pension Index, released in October, measured the retirement income systems of 25 major economies and ranked South Korea 24th, with only India ranked lower. Last year, only 45 percent of South Koreans between 55 and 79 received pensions; their monthly payout averaged $431, or 82 percent of the minimum cost of living for a single person, according to government data.
10月发布的“2015墨尔本美世全球养老金指数”(2015 Melbourne Mercer Global Pension Index)衡量了25个主要经济体的退休收入制度，并将韩国排在第24位，仅比印度靠前。去年，韩国55岁到79岁的人群中，只有45%的人有养老金。政府数据显示，他们每月的平均养老金为431美元，相当于一个人最低生活成本的82%。
About 30 percent of older South Korean families have a monthly income below the absolute poverty level. But they can get welfare only when they can prove that their family is unwilling or unable to support them. Many reject that option because they find it too embarrassing to reach out to relatives they have not contacted for many years.
韩国的老年人家庭中，约30%的月收入低于绝对贫困水平。但他们只有在能证明家人不愿意，或没有能力赡养他们时，才能领取福利救济。很多人拒绝这么做，因为他们认为，向多年没有联系的亲戚伸手太尴尬。
And one out of every four elderly people in South Korea has depression, according to a study published by the Korea Institute for Health and Social Affairs in September. As a group, their suicide rate is double the national suicide rate.
根据韩国健康与社会事务研究所9月发表的一项研究，韩国四分之一的老年人患有抑郁症。作为一个群体，他们的自杀率是全国自杀率的两倍。