SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye on Monday ordered the South Korean military and police to increase their vigilance, especially along the disputed western sea border with North Korea, warning that Pyongyang might attempt armed provocations following the recent purge and execution of Jang Song-thaek, who was believed to have been the North’s second most powerful official.
韩国首尔——总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)周一下令韩国军队及警察加强戒备，尤其是在与朝鲜有争议西部海域边界地区，她警告说，平壤在清洗并处决了一直被认为是朝鲜第二号人物的张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)后，可能会尝试武装挑衅。
“Given the recent series of incidents in North Korea, there is uncertainty over the direction in which the political situation there will develop,” Ms. Park’s office quoted her as saying during a meeting with senior aides. “We cannot rule out contingencies like reckless provocations from the North.”
朴槿惠的办公室引用她在一次与高级助手开会时讲的话说，“鉴于朝鲜最近发生的一系列情况，朝鲜政治将往哪个方向发展尚不确定。我们不能排除朝鲜发动不计后果挑衅的可能性。”
Ms. Park’s warning over what she called “the gravity and unpredictability of the current situation” came as officials and analysts in the region were scrambling to determine what Mr. Jang’s execution might mean for the stability, internal politics and foreign policy of North Korea, an opaque, nuclear-armed regime with an inexperienced leader, Kim Jong-un, who is believed to be 30 years old.
朴槿惠就她称之为“当前形势的严重性及不确定性”发出警告的同时，该地区的官员和分析人士正在忙于搞清楚张成泽被处决对朝鲜的稳定、内政以及外交可能意味着什么。朝鲜很不透明，且拥有核武器，其领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)缺少经验，人们认为他的年龄在30岁上下。
Mr. Jang, who was Mr. Kim’s uncle and had been regarded as his mentor, was executed on Thursday after being accused of plotting to overthrow the government. His downfall was startling not only because of who he was, but because of the unusually public way in which he was purged.
张成泽是金正恩的姑父，也一直被认为是后者的指导者，他在周四被判犯有蓄意颠覆政府罪之后被执行了死刑。他的倒台之所以令人吃惊，不仅因为他的身份，也因为清洗他的方式不同寻常地公开。
Abandoning its traditional secrecy over internal politics, the regime prominently detailed Mr. Jang’s alleged corruption and political ambitions in state news reports. It also showed no qualms about demonstrating brutality: It released photos of Mr. Jang at a court-martial bearing what appeared to be marks of torture, including a bruised and swollen eyelid.
朝鲜当局放弃了以往的那种对国内政治保密的做法，让国家新闻媒体详细报道了张成泽被指控的腐败罪行及其政治野心。朝鲜政府对展示自己的残暴毫无顾忌，发布了张成泽在军事法庭上的照片，照片中似乎可以看出他遭受酷刑，包括他的眼皮有瘀伤和肿胀。
The court verdict condemned Mr. Jang as “human scum” and “worse than a dog,” citing among many other offenses his purported failure to applaud as enthusiastically as others did during a 2010 meeting at which Mr. Kim was elected to a party post. The North’s state-run news media called for “shredding the traitor to pieces and throwing him into boiling water.”
军事法庭的判决书称张成泽是“人间渣滓”、“不如狗”，谴责他所犯的诸多罪行中包括，在2010年的一次会议上，金正恩被推上党的一个要职，当时全场报以热烈的掌声，张成泽却只是不情愿地拍手应付。朝鲜的国家媒体呼吁“将叛贼撕成碎片，把他投进沸水中”。
A weekend editorial in a conservative South Korean daily, Chosun Ilbo, compared Mr. Jang’s purge to “a beast being dragged into a slaughterhouse.”
韩国一家保守派报纸《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)在周末的一篇评论中把清洗张成泽比喻成“一头野兽被拖进了屠宰场”。
Some analysts saw the dramatic developments as Mr. Kim’s attempt to intimidate potential opponents and declare himself the North’s unchallenged leader on the eve of the second anniversary Tuesday of the death of his father, the longtime dictator Kim Jong-il. Mr. Jang would have been one of Mr. Kim’s last potential rivals for power, they said.
周二是朝鲜长期独裁者、金正恩之父金正日(Kim Jong-il)去世两周年的日子，一些分析人士把最近的戏剧性发展看成是金正恩在该纪念日的前夕恐吓潜在对手、把自己宣布为朝鲜毫无疑问的领导人的努力。他们说，张成泽本来可能会是与金正恩争权的最后潜在对手之一。
But other analysts suspected that Mr. Jang’s public purge could be a sign of instability within the regime, and South Korean officials feared that Mr. Kim, or hard-line generals, might attempt an armed provocation in order to raise tensions with the outside world and strengthen internal unity.
但是其他分析人士则认为，公开清洗张成泽可能是朝鲜政局内部不稳定的一种表现，韩国官员担心金正恩或强硬派的军队领导人可能试图发动一场武装挑衅，以增加与外界的紧张关系，从而强化内部的团结。
While telling lawmakers in Seoul about Mr. Jang’s purge two weeks ago, the National Intelligence Service of South Korea said that Pyongyang had moved more attack helicopters and multitube rocket launchers near the disputed western sea border, which remains the most volatile section of the two Koreas’ heavily armed frontier. The waters around the contested sea border have been the scene of a number of military skirmishes in recent decades, including a North Korean artillery assault on a South Korean island in 2010 and a South Korean counterattack.
两周前，韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service of South Korea)在首尔向议员报告清洗张成泽事件时说，平壤已经将更多的作战直升机和多筒火箭发射器部署到有争议的西部海域边界附近，在朝韩两国重兵把守的前线，西部海域边界最不稳定。最近几十年中，在争议的西部海域边界附近的水域中多次发生军事冲突，其中包括2010年朝鲜用大炮袭击韩国岛屿、韩国发动回击的事件。
The North’s official Korean Central News Agency reported Monday that soldiers had rallied in Pyongyang to pledge their loyalty to Mr. Kim. Photos showed columns of soldiers filling the plaza in front of the Kumsusan mausoleum, where Mr. Kim’s father and his grandfather, Kim Il-sung, lie embalmed.
朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)周一报道称，士兵已经聚集在平壤向金正恩宣誓效忠。照片显示，平壤的锦绣山(Kumsusan)纪念堂前广场上站满了一排排的士兵，金正恩的父亲金正日、祖父金日成(Kim Il-sung)经过防腐处理的尸体摆放在这个纪念堂中。