SEOUL, South Korea — Even as tensions rise on other fronts, North and South Korea have reached agreement on at least one subject, officials said Tuesday: a raise for North Korean workers.
韩国首尔——有官员在周二表示，尽管在其他方面关系日趋紧张，但朝鲜和韩国至少就一项议题达成了协议：为朝鲜工人涨工资。
The countries agreed to an increase in the minimum wage at a jointly run industrial park in the North Korean border city of Kaesong, South Korean officials said. The decade-old complex, where 53,800 North Koreans work at 124 factories run by South Korean managers, is one of the last vestiges of cooperation between the two countries, whose strained relationship has worsened in recent weeks.
韩国官员表示，两国已经同意，为朝鲜边境城市开城的工业园区工人提高最低工资标准。这座合作运营的工业园区内有124座由韩国经理人管理的工厂，有5.38万朝鲜人在此工作。它已有10年历史，是朝韩合作的最后遗留项目之一。最近几周，两国的紧张关系已经进一步恶化。
Last week, South Korea began using loudspeakers at the countries’ border to broadcast propaganda messages into North Korea. That move came after two South Korean soldiers were severely wounded by land mines in the Demilitarized Zone along the border. South Korea said that the North had planted the mines, which the North denied.
上周，韩国开始在两国边境地区使用扬声器向朝鲜播放宣传信息。就在此前，两名韩国士兵在两国边境非军事区被地雷严重炸伤。韩国表示，那是朝鲜埋下的地雷，而朝鲜方面则予以否认。
This week, according to South Korean Defense Ministry officials, North Korea responded by turning on its own loudspeakers at the border. Neither side had used that propaganda tactic, a remnant of the Cold War, in 11 years.
韩国国防部官员表示，本周朝鲜做出回应，在边境地区打开了自己的喇叭。此前，两国都已经有11年没有使用过这类在冷战时期使用的宣传策略。
The Kaesong wage issue has been a subject of negotiation between the Koreas since February. On Tuesday, officials at South Korea’s Unification Ministry, who spoke at a news briefing on the condition of anonymity, said that workers’ monthly minimum wage would be raised 5 percent, to just under $74. The North had wanted an increase of 5.18 percent.
朝韩两方自今年2月就开始针对开城工业园区工人工资事宜进行谈判。韩国统一部(Unification Ministry)的官员在周二举行的一个新闻发布会上匿名接受采访时表示，园区工人的月最低工资将调高5%，接近74美元。朝鲜方面此前希望增加5.18%。
The Kaesong park is a significant source of hard currency for the impoverished North. Workers there earn a monthly average of $166, including overtime compensation. The South pays the wages directly to the North Korean government; how much each worker actually receives is unknown.
开城工业园区是贫困的朝鲜一个重要的美元收入来源。那里的工人月平均工资为166美元，其中包括加班费。韩国直接向朝鲜政府支付工资，每个工人最终具体拿多少工资并不为外界所知。