SEOUL, South Korea — Kim Chae-young attends cram school five evenings a week, toiling deep into the night. But unlike most young South Koreans who spend hours at special schools to polish their English and math, she studies slide steps and bubbly lyrics.
韩国首尔——每周五个晚上，金蔡杨（Kim Chae-young，音译）会去补习学校，努力学习到深夜。但是，和多数花时间在特殊学校里提高英语和数学水平的韩国青少年不同，她学习的是滑步和轻快的歌词。
“I want to become a K-pop icon, one like Psy,” said Chae-young, 13, referring to the Korean rapper of the viral video “Gangnam Style.” “All these hours I spend here are my investment for that dream.”
“我想成为一名韩国流行乐偶像，像Psy那样的，”13岁的金蔡杨说。这里指的是那位演出大热音乐视频《江南Style》(Gangnam Style)的韩国说唱歌手。“我在这里花去的所有时间都是对那个梦想的投资。”
For the past four years, she has practiced her hip-hop moves at the Def Dance Skool in Seoul, which is just one such school among thousands in South Korea. Even though there is no official tally on the number of schools teaching children and teenagers to become pop entertainers, industry officials all agree that it is on the rise. Even traditional private music and dance schools — more accustomed to teaching Bach and ballet — have switched their curriculums to get with the pop plan.
过去四年，她一直在首尔的Def舞蹈学校(Def Dance Skool)练习嘻哈舞步，这所学校只是韩国数以千计此类学校中的一所。虽然并没有官方统计表明，那些教授儿童和青少年成为流行乐艺人的学校的数量究竟有多少，业内人士一致认为，它们的数量在不断增长。甚至连传统的私立音乐和舞蹈学校，如今也开始在课程安排中转而关注流行音乐，而在以往，它们更多是教授巴赫和芭蕾舞。
They are responding to a growing demand. In a survey by the Korea Institute for Vocational Education and Training late last year, entertainers, along with teachers and doctors, were the most popular choices for future jobs among primary, middle and high school students — a far cry from a more traditional era, when entertainment was considered an inferior profession and its practitioners belittled with the derogatory nickname “tantara.” Now, in college, pop music is one of the most coveted majors, where it’s “practical music.”
它们正在响应一股日益增长的需求。在韩国职业能力开发研究院(Korea Institute for Vocational Education and Training)去年做的一项调查中，在小学、初高中学生中间，艺人、教师和医生是未来职业选择中最受欢迎的，这和过往年代的选择大不相同，那时，娱乐行业被认为是贱业，从业者往往被冠以含有贬低含义的绰号“喇叭”(tantara)。如今，在大学里，流行音乐是最令人羡慕的专业之一，因为它是“实用音乐”。
“Eleven years ago, when I first started this school, parents thought only teenage delinquents came here,” said Yang Sun-kyu, head of Def Dance Skool, in the Gangnam district. “Parents’ attitudes have changed.”
“11年前，当我最开始创建这所学校的时候，家长们都认为只有不良青少年才会来这里，”位于江南区的Def舞蹈学校校长杨先奎（Yang Sun-kyu，音译）说道。“父母的态度已有所改变。”
That’s because, in large part, career choices have expanded for their children. The golfer Se Ri Pak has dominated on the L.P.G.A. tour, and the figure skater Kim Yu-na won an Olympic gold medal. Then along came the chubby Park Jae-sang, otherwise known as Psy, with his lasso-swirling, clip-clopping “Gangnam Style” dance steps and lyrics that poked fun at South Korea’s rigid social structure.
这从很大程度上是因为，对他们的孩子来说，职业选择已有所拓宽。高尔夫球手朴世莉(Se Ri Pak)主宰了美国女子职业高尔夫巡回赛(L.P.G.A. Tour)，花样滑冰运动员金妍儿(Kim Yu-na)赢得了一块奥运会金牌。然后还有胖乎乎的朴载相(Park Jae-sang)，即以《江南Style》而闻名的Psy，他的舞步模仿了挥舞套索和马蹄噔噔的动作，歌词讽刺了韩国僵化的社会结构。
On a recent evening, Chae-young and other sweating teenagers bobbed and stomped, practicing their hip-hop moves in front of wall mirrors, as instructors clapped and shouted. Later, in an upstairs recording room, she practiced Adele’s “Rolling in the Deep,” over and over, as her teacher gently admonished her.
最近的一个傍晚，金蔡杨和其他几个满头大汗的少年在练习室蹦蹦跳跳，在墙上的镜子前练习嘻哈舞步，旁边是教练打着拍子叫喊着。之后，在楼上的一间录音室里，她一遍又一遍地练习阿黛尔(Adele)的《泪在深处》(Rolling in the Deep)，她的老师则在一旁轻声地训教。
With the motto “cultivating the next generation of K-pop artists,” the Def Dance Skool trains 1,000 students, up from about 400 in 2006. Fees vary but usually run about $135 a month for two or three evenings a week. That’s about the same price that some traditional cram schools, known as hagwon, charge for their academic programs.
Def舞蹈学校的宗旨是“培育下一代韩国流行乐艺人”，它的学生数量从2006年的400人增长到如今的1000人。各项课程的费用有所不同，但通常每周两三个晚上的训练，每月的学费在135美元（约合830元人民币）左右。这和传统补习学校对学术课程的收费差不多。韩语称这种学校为补习学院(hagwon)。
Almost half of the students at Def Dance Skool are trying to break into one of South Korea’s top K-pop agencies, which recruit and train young talent to put them into girl or boy bands.
Def舞蹈学校约一半的学生都在努力进入顶级的韩国流行乐经纪公司，这些公司会招录并培训年轻艺人，然后将他们组合成女子、男子乐团。
Some of these South Korean “idol groups,” including Girls’ Generation, Super Junior and Big Bang, produce music videos that generate millions of views on YouTube. Fans from across Asia and elsewhere make pilgrimages to South Korea to attend their album releases, concerts and awards ceremonies, or just to stroll around the Gangnam district, renowned for its pricey bars, chic boutiques and plastic-surgery clinics.
这其中的一些韩国“偶像组合”，如少女时代(Girls’ Generation)、Super Junior和Big Bang，他们的音乐视频在YouTube上的收看次数以百万计。从亚洲各地以及其他国家赶来韩国“朝圣”的歌迷，会去参加他们的唱片发售、演唱会和颁奖典礼，或者只是在江南区四处走走，这里以昂贵的酒吧、时尚的精品店和整容诊所而闻名。
Revenue from K-pop has climbed. The combined sales of South Korea’s top three K-pop agencies — SM Entertainment, YG Entertainment and JYP Entertainment — soared to 362.9 billion won, or about $326 million, last year, from 106.6 billion won in 2009, with most of that growth coming from overseas.
韩国流行乐带来的收入也已攀升。三家顶级韩国流行乐经济公司——SM娱乐(SM Entertainment)、YG娱乐(YG Entertainment)和JYP娱乐(JYP Entertainment)——的总收入在去年飙升至3629亿韩元（约合20亿元人民币），远高于2009年的1066亿韩元，其中大部分增长来自海外。
K-pop stars frequently are the faces for top South Korean brands in television commercials, and Psy fronts for a range of products, from Hite beer and Samsung refrigerators to a line of cosmetics for men called Man’s Balm.
韩国流行乐明星常在电视广告中为韩国顶级品牌代言，Psy代理了一系列产品，从海特啤酒(Hite)、三星冰箱(Samsung)到男士系列化妆品“男士润肤霜”(Man’s Balm)。
“In my days, studying hard was everything, but now we see there are other options for our children,” said Lee Byeong-hwa, a 48-year-old homemaker whose 11-year-old daughter, Kim En-jae, dreams of a career as a K-pop star.
“在我小时候，用功学习就是一切，但现在我们看到孩子有了其他选择，”48岁的家庭主妇李秉华（Lee Byeong-hwa，音译）说。她11岁的女儿金恩真（Kim En-jae，音译）梦想成为一名流行乐明星。
On a recent day, Ms. Lee and En-jae sat with thousands of people at an indoor stadium in Incheon, west of Seoul. Nearly all of them were in their teens or 20s, and each was wearing a number.
最近的一天，在首尔以西的仁川，李秉华和金恩真与成千上万的人们一起坐在一个室内体育场里。在场的所有人几乎都在十几岁和二十几岁之间，每个人戴着一个号码。
They were among two million contestants vying to appear on Season 5 of “Superstar K,” the country’s answer to “American Idol.” Besides South Korea, auditions were held in the United States and Canada. It’s one of several K-pop star-spotting television shows that have become magnets for would-be performers like En-jae.
他们是报名参加《超级明星K》(Superstar K)第五季的200万名选手中的一部分，这是韩国一档类似《美国偶像》(American Idol)的节目。除了在韩国，组办者也在美国和加拿大进行了海选。这是韩国流行乐几个选秀电视节目中的一个，对于想要成为艺人的金恩真这样的人来说，具有极大的吸引力。
Hugging a guitar, En-jae watched intently as applicants lined up in front of 25 white rectangular tents on the stadium floor. Eventually, the group was pared to just 100 individual and group acts for the three-month “Superstar K” competition. The weekly broadcast on the Mnet cable channel began on Friday.
报名者在体育馆里25座白色长方形帐篷前排起队来，金恩真抱着一把吉他，专心地注视着一切。最终，经过挑选之后，只会剩下100组个人和团体组合，参加为期3个月的《超级明星K》比赛。Mnet有线电视频道已从上周五开播该节目，并将每周播出。
For Woo Ji-won, an 18-year-old high school senior, it’s her third year in a row trying to pass the audition.
18岁的高中三年级学生禹芝元（Woo Ji-won，音译）已经是连续第三年尝试通过海选了。
“My classmates are cramming for college entrance exams,” she said. “But I go to a K-pop school seven evenings a week. After coming home past 10, I study K-pop video on YouTube for hours.”
“我的同学正为了大学入学考试而抓紧时间准备，”她说。“但我每周七个晚上都去一所韩国流行乐学校。在10点多到家后，我会在YouTube上再研究几小时的韩国流行乐视频。”
K-pop critics contend that South Korea is producing cookie cutter performances: perfectly synchronized dances, catchy songs and outfits and chiseled but forgettable features, often the product of the plastic-surgery clinics in the Gangnam district. Psy, they argue, is an anomaly.
韩国流行乐批评人士主张，韩国正在对音乐表演进行批量生产：完全同步的舞蹈、朗朗上口的歌曲、引人注目的打扮，轮廓分明却易被遗忘的外表（常常都是江南区整形手术诊所的产物）。他们认为，Psy在其中是一个异类。
Hong Dae-kwang, who ranked No. 4 at the “Superstar K” tournament last year, shared those reservations. “They all sing, dance and perform well, like well-made machines,” he said.
洪大光(Hong Dae-kwang)在去年的《超级明星K》比赛中名列第四，他赞同这些意见。“他们全都能歌善舞，又会表演，就像制作精良的机器一样，”他说。
Still, Mr. Hong, 28, acknowledged that the K-pop boom helped to change his life. Before he starred in the competition, he shared a cheap one-room apartment with a friend and was delivering pizza and performing on the streets for a living. Now, he is a regular guest on a local radio show, lives in a three-room apartment and has his own agent.
不过28岁的洪大光承认，韩国流行乐的繁荣帮助改变了他的生活。在这个比赛中亮相之前，他与一个朋友合住一套廉价的一居室公寓，靠送比萨饼和街头卖艺为生。现在，他成了当地一档广播节目的常客，住在一套三居室的公寓里，并拥有他自己的经纪人。
“K-pop opened the door of opportunities for people like me,” said Mr. Hong, whose debut album briefly topped digital song downloads here in April.
“韩国流行乐为像我这样的人打开了机遇之门，”洪大光说。4月，他的首张专辑曾短暂地登上了韩国数字歌曲下载榜榜首。