A former national intelligence chief of South Korea was arrested on bribery charges on Wednesday, further tarnishing the image of the country’s spy agency, which has already been accused of meddling in the presidential election in December.
周三，前韩国国家情报院院长元世勋(Won Sei-Hoon)因被控受贿而遭到逮捕，此事进一步损坏了该国情报机构的形象。韩国国家情报院之前被指控操纵12月的总统选举。
Won Sei-hoon, who served as director of the National Intelligence Service under President Lee Myung-bak from 2009 until the end of Mr. Lee’s term in February, is the latest in a series of former South Korean spy chiefs who have faced criminal indictments after leaving office. Several of them have been imprisoned for corruption and other crimes.
元世勋曾在韩国前总统李明博(Lee Myung-bak)执政时担任国家情报院院长，从2009年直到李明博于今年2月卸任。从前，多位前韩国国家情报院院长都在离职后遭到刑事指控，其中一些人还因腐败和其他罪行而入狱，而元世勋被捕只是这其中的最新案例。
Mr. Won was charged with accepting cash, gold and other gifts totaling 150 million won, or $132,000, from the head of a construction company since 2009. Prosecutors said the gifts were bribes Mr. Won accepted in exchange for peddling influence to help the businessman win construction projects from a state-run power plant and a major supermarket chain.
元世勋被控从2009年起收受某建筑公司总裁提供的现金、黄金和其他馈赠，价值总计1.5亿韩元（约合人民币80万元）。检察官称，元世勋收受了大量贿赂，作为交换，他利用其职务影响力来帮助该建筑商获得某国有电站和某大型超市连锁店的建筑工程项目。
Mr. Won admitted exchanging gifts with the businessman, Hwang Bo-yeon, but denied accepting bribes. Mr. Hwang, head of a small, now-defunct construction company, was already behind bars on separate embezzlement charges when prosecutors recently began investigating his ties with Mr. Won.
元世勋承认和建筑商黄保渊(Hwang Bo-yeon)互相交换好处，但否认收受贿赂。黄保渊是一家已经停业的小型建筑公司的总裁，在检察官最近对其和元世勋的关系发起调查时，他已经因在另一案中盗用资金而入狱。
Even before his arrest on Wednesday, Mr. Won faced trial on separate criminal charges.
即使在周三被捕之前，元世勋还因其他刑事指控而面临审判。
Prosecutors indicted him last month on charges of ordering a team of intelligence agents to begin an online smear campaign against government critics, including the opposition rivals of Park Geun-hye, then the governing-party candidate for president, ahead of elections in December.
上月，检察官控告他在12月选举开始之前命令一组情报员在网上抹黑政府批评者，包括朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的反对派对手和执政党的总统候选人。
It remains unclear whether the online campaign affected the result of the election.
目前尚不清楚这些网上抹黑行动是否影响了选举结果。
Although prosecutors indicted Mr. Won on charges of violating the election law, they did not arrest him, nor did they indict the intelligence agents, saying they were just following Mr. Won’s orders. That decision prompted the political opposition to call the prosecutors’ inquiry a whitewash designed to limit the possible political fallout against Ms. Park, who won the election.
尽管检察官指控元世勋违反选举法，但他们没有将其逮捕，也没有指控涉事的情报员，并称这些情报员只是在执行元世勋的命令。得知该决定后，政治反对派表示，检察官的调查只是一场旨在降低对胜选人朴槿惠的负面政治影响的粉饰行动。
The rival political parties agreed to begin a separate parliamentary inquiry into the accusations of a smear campaign, but they were still bickering over the makeup of an investigative panel.
互相对立的政党同意对抹黑行动的指控发起单独的国会调查，但各方还未就调查小组的人选达成一致。
The head of the National Intelligence Service, once known as K.C.I.A. and used by the country’s former military dictators as a main tool of silencing political dissent, remains one of the most powerful government jobs in South Korea. Successive governments have vowed to reform the agency to keep it out of domestic politics.
国家情报院之前被称为韩国中央情报局(KCIA)，并被该国的前军事独裁者当作让政治异见人士消声的主要工具。国家情报院院长仍然是韩国最有权力的政府职位之一。多届政府都承诺要改革该机构，让它不再插手国内政治。