SEOUL, South Korea — A colonel belonging to North Korea’s spy agency recently defected to South Korea, the South announced on Monday. He is one of the highest-ranking North Korean military officers known to have defected to South Korea in recent decades.
韩国首尔——韩国周一宣称，前不久一名任职于朝鲜间谍机构的上校逃往韩国。在最近几十年为外界所知的逃往韩国的朝鲜军官中，他是军衔最高的人之一。
The Defense and Unification Ministries of South Korea would confirm only that a colonel from the North’s General Bureau of Reconnaissance had recently defected, declining to provide further details.
韩国国防部和统一部只愿证实朝鲜侦查总局(Reconnaissance General Bureau)的一名上校于近期出逃，但不愿提供进一步的细节。
The South Korean news agency Yonhap, which earlier reported the officer’s defection, said he arrived in South Korea last year. A few South Korean news outlets also reported on Monday that a North Korean diplomat stationed in an African country defected to the South last May. The government confirmed that defection as well.
早前报道过此事的韩国通讯社韩联社(Yonhap)称，这名军官于去年抵达韩国。周一当天，一些韩国新闻机构还报道称，去年5月，一名驻非洲某国的朝鲜外交官出逃韩国。这件事也得到了政府的证实。
The revelations on Monday followed South Korea’s confirmation on Friday that 13 North Koreans working for a North Korean government-run restaurant abroad had defected to the South a day earlier.
在周一公布消息之前，韩国于上周五证实，朝鲜政府在国外开办的一家餐厅，有13名朝鲜员工已于前一天逃往韩国。
The colonel would be the highest-ranking official from the spy bureau known to have crossed over to the South. It remained unclear what his defection meant in a continuing spy war between the Koreas, which remain technically at war after a cease-fire ended open conflict in 1953.
这名上校将是外界所知的越境进入韩国的侦查总局官员中，军衔最高的一名。尚不清楚他的逃亡，对两国间持续不断的间谍战意味着什么。朝鲜和韩国1953年签署停火协议，结束了公开冲突。严格来说，两国目前仍处于交战状态。
Some South Korean news outlets quoted unidentified government sources as saying that the colonel had been involved in running spy operations against South Korea while working in the North, indicating that his defection could have handed a potential trove of intelligence to the South Korean authorities.
一些韩国新闻机构援引不愿透露姓名的政府消息人士的话称，这名上校在朝鲜工作时参与了针对韩国的间谍行动。这表明他出逃后可能交给了韩国当局大量情报。
It has been rare for South Korean officials to publicly confirm the defections of North Koreans, especially those of high rank. Even when they have, they usually waited until after the government had thoroughly debriefed the defectors and was reasonably sure that announcing their defections would not jeopardize family members left in the North.
韩国官员公开证实朝鲜人出逃实属罕见，特别是对那些身居高位的脱北者。即便要公布，他们通常也会等到政府对脱北者进行了彻底的讯问，并且有理由相信公布出逃的消息不会危及留在朝鲜的家人之时。
Opposition political parties accused the conservative government of President Park Geun-hye of advertising the high-profile defections in recent days to help attract votes in parliamentary elections set for Wednesday.
反对党谴责称，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)领导的保守派政府最近几天公布备受关注的出逃事件，是为了帮助在定于周三举行的议会选举中吸引选票。
During news briefings on Monday, local journalists bombarded the spokesmen of the Defense and Unification Ministries with questions about why the government had announced or leaked the news of the high-profile defections just ahead of the elections.
在周一的新闻发布会上，当地记者像连珠炮一般，不断追问国防部和统一部发言人，为何在选举前夕公布或泄露关于重大逃亡事件的消息。
The government denied that the announcements were politically motivated. Jeong Joon-hee, a spokesman for the Unification Ministry, said the defections of 13 North Koreans last week were significant enough to be announced because they occurred while the North was being punished with United Nations sanctions. He also said the colonel’s defection could be seen as a sign that some of the North Korean elites were not happy under the supreme leader, Kim Jong-un.
政府否认公布消息有政治动机。统一部发言人郑俊熙(Jeong Joon-hee)表示，上周13名朝鲜人出逃之所以值得宣布，是因为事情发生在朝鲜受到联合国制裁期间。他还表示，前述上校的出逃可能会被当做一个迹象，表明在最高领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的统治下，朝鲜的部分精英感到不满。
Ms. Park’s government has championed the vigorous enforcement of sanctions against North Korea, citing the recent defections as evidence that the sanctions were working.
朴槿惠领导的政府支持对朝鲜实行严厉的制裁，称最近的出逃事件证明，制裁措施正在发挥作用。
But Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at the Sejong Institute, said the isolated defections did not prove that the sanctions were working or that Mr. Kim’s grip on power in the North was weakening.
但世宗研究所(Sejong Institute)的高级分析师郑成长(Cheong Seong-chang)称，孤立的出逃事件并不能证明制裁措施正在发挥作用，或是金正恩对朝鲜权力的控制正在削弱。
North Korea created the General Bureau of Reconnaissance in 2009 by combining various party and military agencies in charge of collecting intelligence abroad and infiltrating the South with spies.
2009年，朝鲜合并了党内和军内的多个机构，成立了侦查总局，负责收集外国情报并让间谍潜入韩国。
In recent years, the spy bureau expanded its saboteur and spy operations to cyberspace. The United States blacklisted the bureau last year after North Korean hacking attacks were blamed for wreaking havoc on the computer network of Sony Pictures Entertainment in 2014.
近年来，该机构把破坏行动和间谍活动扩大到了网络空间。2014年索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures Entertainment)的计算机网络遭到严重破坏，官方将该事件归咎于朝鲜的黑客攻击。之后在去年，美国把该机构列入了黑名单。