SEOUL, South Korea — In a highly unusual move in South Korea, where it is usually a political kiss of death to be branded as pro-Japanese, a group of prominent figures started a signature-collecting campaign on Thursday to help Japan, their country’s much-hated former colonial master, win another Nobel Prize.
韩国首尔——近日在韩国，这个通常被印上亲日标签就无异于终结政治生涯的地方，出现了一个极不寻常的举动，一群显要人物周四启动了一项联名请愿活动，以帮助日本这个常被韩国痛恨的前殖民宗主国，去赢取又一枚诺贝尔奖。
About 50 dignitaries, including former prime ministers and parliamentary speakers, said in a joint statement that they were starting an effort to support the Japanese who have been campaigning to promote Article 9 of Japan’s postwar Constitution as a nominee for the 2015 Nobel Peace Prize.
包括前总理和议长在内的约50名政要发表了一项联合声明，称其正开展活动，支持一群在日本国内努力捍卫战后宪法第九条的日本人。这些日本人一直在倡议2015年的诺贝尔和平奖应颁给这条宪法。
That article renounces “war as a sovereign right,” as well as “the threat or use of force as a means of settling international disputes.” South Koreans fear that under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, whose party won a landslide victory in parliamentary elections on Sunday, Japan might step up efforts to reinterpret or amend the article to allow for military expansion for its self-defense forces.
宪法第九条宣布放弃“战争为一项主权权力”，并放弃“以威胁或武力手段解决国际争端。”韩国担心在首相安倍晋三的领导下，日本可能会更加致力于重新解释或修订这项条款，以容许其自卫队军力扩张。安倍的党派在周日刚刚以压倒性优势赢得了议会选举。
In 2013, Naomi Takasu, a Japanese housewife with two children, started an online campaign to collect signatures for a petition asking the Nobel Committee to consider Article 9 itself for the Peace Prize — an attempt, she said, to protect her children from war. After the Nobel Committee told her that the prize could not be given to a “text,” she nominated the Japanese people — 400,000 so far — campaigning on their own to have Article 9 recognized by the Nobel Committee.
在2013年，一位有两个孩子的日本家庭主妇高须直美(Naomi Takasu)启动了一项网上签名征集活动，请愿要求诺贝尔委员会考虑为宪法第九条颁发和平奖——她说这一请求是为了保护她的孩子免受战争伤害。诺贝尔委员会告诉她奖项不能颁给一条“文本”，她于是又提名了自发参与活动、推动宪法第九条为诺贝尔委员会所承认的日本人民——目前已有40万人。
On Thursday, South Korean campaigners said Nobel recognition for Article 9 would send a powerful symbolic message against Mr. Abe’s ambition to loosen restrictions on Japan’s use of military force. It would also help stabilize the region by bringing moral support and international attention to those Japanese who campaign for a pacifist Japan, they said.
周四，韩国的倡导者说，以诺贝尔奖的形式肯定宪法第九条具有强有力的象征意义，它将警告安倍首相，不要企图放松对日本动用武力的约束。他们还说，这样做也将为那些捍卫和平宪法的日本人带去道义的支持和国际关注，有助于地区稳定。
South Koreans “wish Japan’s Peace Constitution to remain unchanged, containing as it does humankind’s aspiration, as the foundation for peace in East Asia and the world since the end of World War II,” they said in a statement released during a news conference in downtown Seoul on Thursday.
韩国活动人士周四在首尔市中心召开记者会时发出声明说，韩国人“希望日本和平宪法保持不变，一如既往地包含人类的和平祈愿，作为二战后东亚和世界和平的基石。”
In South Korea, the campaigners will start collecting signatures at churches and temples, as well as through a website and Facebook and Twitter accounts, said Lee Bu-young, a former lawmaker who helped organize the campaign.
帮助发起行动的韩国前议员李傅永（Lee Bu-young，音译）说，在韩国，他们将在寺院、教堂，以及通过网站、Facebook和Twitter征集签名。