SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye urged North Korea on Monday to come to the negotiating table to discuss projects of reconciliation on the divided Korean Peninsula, like reunions of families separated during the Korean War.
韩国首尔——朴槿惠总统周一呼吁朝鲜坐到谈判桌前，来讨论分裂的朝鲜半岛上的和解项目，比如让在朝鲜战争期间离散的家属团聚。
The South Korean president’s appeal followed a New Year’s Day speech by Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, in which he said he was ready to meet Ms. Park — but only if the mood was right.
韩国总统的呼吁是在朝鲜领导人金正恩的新年致辞之后，金正恩在讲话中说，只要气氛适合，他已准备好与朴槿惠见面。
“North Korea should stop hesitating anymore and accept calls for dialogue,” Ms. Park said Monday during her nationally televised New Year’s speech.
朴槿惠周一在对全国直播的新年讲话中说，“朝鲜应该停止犹豫，接受对话的提议。”
In recent months, her government has repeatedly proposed dialogue with Pyongyang. But the North has not responded, instead accusing the South of raising tensions by allowing activists to use large helium balloons to drop anti-North Korean leaflets on the North and continuing joint war games with the United States military.
近几个月来，韩国政府一再提出希望与平壤对话。但朝鲜一直没有回应，反而指责韩国通过允许活动人士用大型氦气球向朝鲜散发反朝传单、以及继续与美国部队举行联合军事演习等做法，让紧张气氛升级。
Ms. Park said Monday that she “can meet anyone” to help ease tensions with North Korea and “can hold a summit meeting if that helps.” She said she had no “preconditions” for meeting Mr. Kim but also urged North Korea to show “sincerity” by embracing international calls for an end to its efforts to build nuclear weapons.
朴槿惠在周一表示，为了帮助缓解朝鲜紧张局势，她“可以与任何人见面”，“如有帮助，也可以举行首脑会晤。”她说，她没有与金正恩会面的“先决条件”，但敦促朝鲜接受国际社会要求其停止制造核武器努力的呼吁，以表“诚意”。
Ms. Park particularly stressed the need for talks to find a “fundamental solution” to the plight of “separated families” — old Koreans who lost contact with their relatives during the Korean War six decades ago and have never seen them again.
朴槿惠特别强调了用谈判来为“离散家庭”的困境找到一个“根本性解决方案”的必要性，朝鲜半岛上的一些老年人在六十年前的朝鲜战争中失去与自己亲人的联系，至今没能再见他们。
Over the decades, the two Korean governments have arranged a series of reunions, but the program has proceeded in fits and starts, subject to inter-Korean relations. Still, 70,000 older South Koreans, more than half of them in their 80s and beyond, are on a government waiting list, yearning for a chance before they die to meet children or siblings they left in the North. Last February, 83 aging South Koreans and 88 old North Koreans had emotional reunions with relatives at a North Korean mountain resort. No further reunions have been held since then.
几十年中，朝鲜和韩国政府安排过一些让家庭团聚的活动，但这个项目受朝韩关系的影响，断断续续。仍有7万名老年韩国人、其中大多数在80岁以上，在政府的等待名单上，渴望在自己有生之年有机会见到留在朝鲜的子女或兄弟姐妹。去年二月，83名老年韩国人和88名老年朝鲜人在朝鲜的一个山区度假胜地与亲属举行了感人的团聚活动。自那以后，没有再举行过团聚活动。
South Korea is asking the North to make reunions regular and routine, free from political tensions.
韩国希望朝鲜能让团聚活动定期化、常规化，不受政治紧张局势的影响。
“This is a matter we can no longer delay, given the advanced ages of those surviving separated family members,” Ms. Park said, suggesting that early talks were needed to arrange a new round of reunions in time for Feb. 19, the Lunar New Year, a traditional time for family gatherings here.
“考虑到分离家庭幸存成员的年龄，这是一件我们不能再拖延的事情，”朴槿惠说，她建议需尽早举行会谈，以赶在在农历新年2月19日前安排新一轮的团聚，农历新年是传统的家庭聚会时间。
On Saturday, North Korea said that to help create a mood for inter-Korean talks, it had suggested to the United States that it would place a temporary moratorium on nuclear tests if Washington reciprocated by suspending its joint military exercises with South Korea.
上周六，朝鲜曾表示，为了帮助给朝韩会谈建立气氛，它曾向美国建议，如果美国暂停其与韩国的联合军演的话，朝鲜可以考虑暂停核试验。
The United States has rejected the proposal. It said it was inappropriate to link North Korean nuclear tests, banned under United Nations resolutions, to its annual joint military drills with its South Korean ally, which it described as routine.
美国拒绝了这一建议，并表示将联合军演与朝鲜的核试验挂钩不恰当，朝鲜的核试验被联合国决议禁止，而美国与盟友韩国的年度联合军事演习是常规性的。