SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye of South Korea said Thursday that South and North Korea should resume arranging reunions of families separated by the Korean War six decades ago, and she renewed a proposal to build an “international peace park” straddling their heavily armed border.
韩国首尔——韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)周四表示，韩国与朝鲜应当恢复安排朝鲜战争离散家属的重聚活动，她还再次提议，在双方囤积重兵的边境地区建立一座“国际和平公园”。
Ms. Park’s conciliatory overtures came a day after the two Koreas agreed to reopen an idled joint industrial park in the North Korean border town of Kaesong, a deal that indicated that Seoul and Pyongyang were moving toward a thaw after months of tensions earlier this year. The Kaesong agreement also appeared to give impetus to Ms. Park’s “trustpolitik” policy, which calls for building trust with North Korea as a foundation for more serious negotiations on ending the North’s nuclear weapons programs in exchange for helping the country rebuild its economy.
就在朴槿惠做出此番和解姿态的前一天，两国达成协议，重启位于朝鲜边境城市开城的一座停工的工业园。该协议表明，经过今年此前数月的剑拔弩张，首尔和平壤的关系正在逐渐解冻。关于开城的协议似乎还对朴槿惠的“信任政治”有所推动。这一政策倡导，将与朝鲜建立互信作为更为重要的谈判的基础，谈判会讨论朝鲜如何终止核武计划，以换取经济援助来重建该国经济。
“South and North Korea must leave mistrust and confrontation behind and open the door for a new era of peace and reunification on the Korean Peninsula,” Ms. Park said in her nationally televised speech Thursday, which marked the anniversary of Korea’s liberation from Japanese colonial rule with the end of World War II. “If North Korea gives up its nuclear weapons program, we can open a new era on the peninsula and work together to ease the pain and difficulties of the North Korean people.”
周四是二战结束、朝鲜半岛脱离日本殖民统治的“光复节”纪念日。“韩朝必须把怀疑和对抗抛诸脑后，在朝鲜半岛开创和平与统一的新时代，”朴槿惠在面向全国的电视讲话中表示。“如果朝鲜放弃核武计划，我们可以在朝鲜半岛开创一个新时代，共同努力减轻朝鲜民众的苦难。”
Ms. Park proposed that reunions of separated families be held around the autumn holiday of Chuseok on Sept. 19, traditionally a time for family gatherings in both Koreas.
朴槿惠建议，把离散家庭的重聚安排在9月19日中秋节前后，这是朝韩两国家庭团聚的传统节日。
Since the division of Korea in 1945 and the Korean War of 1950-53, which ended in a stalemate, millions of Koreans have been separated from parents, siblings and children across the border, with no direct mail service or telephone links between the two countries. Family reunions have been a highly emotional issue, as many aging Koreans who lived through the war have died without seeing their relatives again.
1945年朝韩半岛南北分治，1950年到1953年间的朝鲜战争又以僵局收场，自那以后，数百万民众与边境线另一端的父母、兄弟姐妹和子女骨肉分离，而两国间也没有直接的邮件或电话服务。离散家属重聚问题极其牵动人心，许多在战争中生还的老人没能再见到家属便已过世。
A series of family reunions was held during a period of inter-Korean rapprochement between 1998 and 2008, but there have been none since 2010, with relations between the Koreas having soured in recent years. Tens of thousands of elderly South Koreans are still on a waiting list to be selected by lottery for the reunion program if it is revived.
在1998年到2008年之间，朝韩两国关系趋于和解，双方安排了一系列家属重聚活动。但近年来，两国关系又紧张起来，2010年后再未有相关安排。等待重聚的名单中尚有数万名韩国老人，他们希望项目一旦重启能够被抽中。
Last month North Korea proposed talks to arrange more family reunions. But it withdrew the offer after the South rejected a separate proposal to discuss resuming South Korean tours to a North Korean mountain, a program that ended in 2008 after North Korean soldiers shot and killed a South Korean tourist.
上个月，朝鲜提议就安排更多家属重聚活动进行谈判。但是，韩国拒绝了朝鲜另外提出的讨论重启韩国游客到朝鲜山区观光的建议，有关重聚问题的提议随后被收回。相关观光项目于2008年终止，原因是朝鲜士兵射杀了一名韩国游客。
The South insists that it can discuss resuming that jointly operated tourism project only if the North apologizes for the killing of the tourist. Many South Korean conservatives also oppose the tourism program itself, which had served as an important source of hard currency for the Pyongyang government.
韩方坚持，只有朝方为射杀游客致歉，才能讨论重启这一联合旅游项目。该项目一度是平壤政府获得硬通货的重要来源，因而遭到了许多韩国保守派的反对。
Ms. Park first proposed an “international peace park” inside the 2.5-mile-wide Demilitarized Zone in May, during a speech before the United States Congress. The DMZ, a stretch of no-man’s land bisecting the Korean Peninsula that was created to keep the rival Korean armies apart after the war, is one of the world's most heavily militarized frontiers, guarded on both sides by minefields, barbed wire, tank traps and millions of battle-ready troops.
今年5月，朴槿惠在美国国会发表讲话，首次提出在2.5英里宽（约合4公里）的非军事区内建立一座“国际和平公园”。非军事区是分割朝鲜半岛的无人区，建立的目的是在战后将敌对的朝韩双方分隔开来。这里实际上属于世界上军事化程度最高的前线之列，双方均在此囤积了大量地雷、带刺铁丝网、坦克路障和上百万时刻准备战斗的士兵。
“The standoff around the DMZ has the potential to endanger global peace. We must defuse that danger,” Ms. Park said in her speech in May, urging Washington to join in the creation of such a park. “The demilitarized zone must live up to its name, a zone that strengthens the peace, not undermines it.”
朴槿惠在5月的讲话中称，“非军事区附近的对峙可能会威胁到世界和平。我们必须减轻这种危险。”她还敦促华盛顿一齐加入到和平公园的创建中来。“非军事区必须名副其实，成为巩固和平的地区，而不是反过来破坏和平。”
Her government has yet to reveal details of her plan, and North Korea has yet to respond. Even if Pyongyang agreed to discuss the proposal, any attempt to tinker with the tense Korean border would entail complicated negotiations with the North and could be highly controversial in the South.
朴槿惠领导的政府尚未公布计划的细节，朝鲜方面也未予以回应。就算平壤同意讨论该提议，任何牵涉朝韩之间紧张边境的举措都将涉及与朝方进行复杂的谈判，还可能在韩国引发巨大争议。