SEOUL, South Korea — A South Korean Army sergeant who fled his unit on the border with North Korea after killing five fellow soldiers engaged in a shootout with troops chasing him on Sunday, military officials said. His unit brought his parents to the scene, asking them to persuade their son to surrender.
韩国首尔——韩国军方官员称，韩国部队一名下士在韩朝边界开枪打死5名战友后逃跑，与追寻他的部队在周日展开枪战。他所在的部队还将这名士兵的父母带到现场，让他们劝说儿子投降。
South Korean news media reported that an officer was hit in the arm by one of the bullets fired by the fugitive soldier. By Sunday evening, the shooting had apparently stopped, and media photos from the scene showed camouflaged soldiers training their rifles from the rooftops of a village and an army gunship prowling the sky.
韩国媒体报道称，枪战中一名军官的胳膊被这名逃兵的子弹击中。到周日晚间，这场枪战看来已经停止，现场传回的媒体照片显示，多名士兵隐蔽在村庄的屋顶上，他们的步枪对准前方，天空中还盘旋着一架武装直升机。
The assailant, a 22-year-old sergeant — identified only by his family name, Yim — was returning to his barracks on Saturday evening after sentry duty on the border when he attacked fellow soldiers with a hand grenade and a K-2 standard army-issue rifle, military officials said.
行凶者是一名22岁的下士，人们只知道他姓金。军队官员称，他上周六晚在边界完成了站岗任务返回营地之后，用一枚手榴弹和一只军队标准配备的K-2步枪袭击了战友。
All seven soldiers injured in the Saturday shootings were expected to live, Kim Min-seok, a spokesman for the Ministry of National Defense, said on Sunday.
韩国国防部发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)周日说，在周六袭击中受伤的7名士兵预计都没有生命危险。
As the news spread on Saturday that Sergeant Yim had fled into the night with his rifle and ammunition, villagers near his unit at the northeastern tip of South Korea were advised to stay indoors. Fully armed soldiers dug foxholes around their villages.
随着金下士在夜间携带步枪和弹药逃走的消息在周六传开，这个位于韩国东北角的营地附近的村民被告知不要出门。全副武装的士兵在这些村子附近挖掘避弹坑。
Soldiers added roadblocks to prevent the fugitive solider from reaching towns farther south. They also tightened vigilance on the border for fear that he might attempt to defect to North Korea. Nine army battalions were mobilized for the manhunt, with military helicopters scanning forested hills along the frontier.
士兵还设置了路障，以阻止该逃兵跑到更南边的镇子去。他们还加强了边界的警戒，以防止他叛逃朝鲜的可能性。为了寻找他，韩国出动了9个营的士兵，还动用了军用直升机，从空中搜索边界沿线林木覆盖的山峦。
Sergeant Yim was seen early Sunday afternoon, six miles from his unit. A shootout ensued.
人们最后一次看到金下士是在周日下午距离他所在营地6英里（约9公里）的地方。之后发生了枪战。
The episode highlights the challenge South Korea faces in keeping a largely conscript military, which is on guard against North Korea. The two Koreas are technically at war after the three- year Korean War was halted in 1953 with a truce and not a peace treaty.
这件事突显了韩国维持一个在很大程度上被征入伍的军队所面临的挑战，军队主要是为了防御朝鲜。历时三年的朝鲜半岛战争于1953年停止时，签署的是停战协议，不是和平协议，因此严格地说韩朝双方仍处于战争状态。
Most of the North and South’s armed forces are amassed near their 150-mile-long border. Called the demilitarized zone, the heavily fortified frontier stretches across rugged hills and is guarded by tall wire fences and minefields. Soldiers from the South who are posted there are on constant lookout for infiltrators and are exposed to propaganda broadcasts from the North.
朝韩两国的大部分武装力量都聚集在长约300公里的边界附近。这个被称为非军事区的前线地区戒备森严，该地区穿过起伏的山峦，两侧都布有高高的铁丝网栅和地雷。被派到边界地区的韩国士兵时刻都要保持着对潜入者的高度警戒，他们也经常听到朝鲜的宣传广播。
Serving on the border is considered one of the most grueling duties among South Korean conscripts, especially when tensions run high with North Korea, as they have in recent months, with Pyongyang and Seoul trading threats of attack and counterattack.
驻守边界被认为是韩国应征士兵最辛苦的职责，尤其是在与朝鲜的关系高度紧张的时候，最近几个月的情况正是这样，平壤和首尔相互威胁要发动袭击、进行反击。
The military screens soldiers for their physical and mental fitness before assigning them to guard post duties on the border.
韩国军方在分配士兵去驻守边境之前，要对他们进行身体和精神状态的排查。
Sergeant Yim was ruled unfit in April last year but was cleared for border duty in a second test in November, said the South Korean national news agency Yonhap, quoting an unnamed military source.
韩国国家联合通讯社韩通社援引一位不具名的军方消息人士说，金下士去年4月曾被认为不合格，但在去年11月的第二次检查中却获准执行边界任务。
Mr. Kim, the ministry spokesman, said the army was interviewing fellow soldiers in Sergeant Yim’s unit to determine the cause of his rampage.
国防部发言人金珉奭称，军方正在对金下士所在部队的其他士兵进行问询，以确定导致他此次暴行的原因。
The soldier was scheduled to be discharged in September after a mandatory 21-month service.
该士兵按计划将于9月份服完为期21个月的兵役。
The border shooting rocked South Korea, where many remain traumatized by the sinking of a ferry in April that left more than 300 people dead or missing.
这次边境枪击事件进一步震撼了韩国，韩国的许多人仍沉浸在4月份的轮船翻船事故的痛苦中，那次事故导致300多人死亡或失踪。
In recent years, the South Korean military has come under harsh scrutiny for disciplinary problems.
近几年，韩国军队多次因为纪律问题而受到密切关注。
In 2005, a soldier killed eight colleagues in a front-line army unit. In 2011, a marine corporal bullied by other marines went on a shooting spree at a base near the tense maritime border with North Korea, killing four fellow soldiers.
2005年，一名士兵曾杀死了一支前线部队的8名战友。2011年，一名被其他海军士兵欺负的海军兵长在朝韩气氛紧张的海上边界附近的基地开枪，打死了4名战友。
In 2012, a North Korean soldier scaled three barbed-wire fences on the border but was not detected until he arrived at the South Korean barracks, saying he wanted to defect.
2012年，一名朝鲜士兵翻越了三层设有倒刺的铁丝围栏进入韩国兵营，而没有被发觉，该士兵称，他要叛逃。