SEOUL, South Korea — A South Korean court ordered a university professor on Wednesday to pay 10 million won, or $8,262, to each of nine women who had filed suit claiming that the scholar had defamed them in her book about Japan’s World War II-era military brothels.
韩国首尔——韩国一所法院本周三裁决，一名大学教授应向九名女性分别支付1000万韩元（约合人民币5.4万元）的赔偿金。这些女性诉称该教授在一本关于日本二战时期军妓院的书中对她们进行了诽谤。
Since Park Yu-ha, a professor of Japanese literature at Sejong University in Seoul, published “Comfort Women of the Empire” in 2013, she has faced a series of civil and criminal complaints from the nine South Korean women, who say they were forced to serve at the brothels during the war.
朴裕河(Park Yu-ha)是首尔世宗大学(Sejong University)的日本文学教授，在2013年出版了《帝国的慰安妇》(Comfort Women of the Empire)一书之后，九名韩国女性对她提起了一系列民事和刑事诉讼。这些女性称自己在战争期间被迫在妓院工作。
In ruling on a civil lawsuit on Wednesday, the Eastern District Court in Seoul said that Ms. Park must pay reparations because she had defamed the women with “false,” “exaggerated” or “distorted” content in her book.
首尔东区地方法院本周三做出民事诉讼裁决，表示朴裕河必须向她们支付赔偿金，因为她在书中用“虚假”、“夸大”或“歪曲”的内容诽谤了这些女性。
Ms. Park said she would appeal.
朴裕河说，她将提起上诉。
Many intellectuals in South Korea and Japan have condemned the legal maneuvers against Ms. Park as violations of freedom of scholarship. They have also warned that her troubles illustrate how dangerous it could be to challenge conventional wisdom in South Korea about historically delicate issues.
在韩国和日本，许多知识分子纷纷表示谴责，称对朴裕河进行法律干涉侵犯了学术自由。他们还警告说，她遇到的麻烦表明了在韩国，对敏感历史问题的传统说法提出挑战有多么危险。
In her book, Ms. Park called for a more comprehensive view of the women in the brothels, euphemistically referred to by the Japanese as “comfort women.” They have been widely described in official South Korean history as young women forced or lured into sexual slavery. Ms. Park argues that such a picture was only partly true.
在书中，朴裕河呼吁人们用更加全面的视角看待军妓院中的女性，日本人委婉地把这些女性称为“慰安妇”。在韩国的官方历史中，她们被广泛描述为受强迫或诱骗而成为性奴隶的年轻女性。朴裕河认为，这种说法只有部分属实。
Ms. Park also wrote that there was no evidence that the Japanese government was officially involved in, and therefore legally responsible for, forcibly recruiting the women from Korea, then a colony of Japan.
朴裕河还写道，没有证据表示日本政府正式参与了此事，因此，他们不该为强行招募韩国女性负法律责任。韩国当时是日本的殖民地。
She said that Korean collaborators, as well as private Japanese recruiters, were mainly responsible for taking Korean women, sometimes using coercion, into the “comfort stations,” where she said life included both rape and prostitution, and the women developed a “comradelike relationship” with Japanese soldiers.
她说，韩朝通敌者和日本的私人招募者才该为韩国女性进入“慰安所”负责，有部分女性是受到了强迫。她说，在那里的生活中既有强奸，也有卖淫，这些女性和日本兵建立了“战友般的关系”。
Ms. Park’s critics in South Korea, including historians and former sex slaves, accuse her of selectively choosing historical data to parrot a view that many Japanese take on the issue. They call her a “pro-Japanese apologist.”
韩国一些历史学家和曾经的慰安妇批评了朴裕河，指责她选择性地利用历史数据来宣扬很多日本人持有的观点。他们说她是“亲日辩护者”。
In February, another court ruling ordered that her book be redacted in 34 sections for what it called defamatory content. Aside from the civil lawsuit decided on Wednesday, Ms. Park also faces a separate criminal trial, after prosecutors indicted her last November on a charge of defaming the women.
2月，另一项法院判决称，因含有诽谤性内容，书中34个章节须进行调整。除周三做出裁决的民事诉讼外，朴裕河还面临着另一起刑事审判，因为检方去年11月控告她涉嫌诽谤女性。
The comfort women issue has been one of the most emotional disputes between South Korea and Japan, both important allies of the United States. Historians say that at least tens of thousands of women, many of them Korean, were in the brothels from the early 1930s until 1945. A total of 238 women have come forward in South Korea, but only 46 are still living, most of them in their 80s and 90s.
韩国和日本都是美国的重要盟友，但慰安妇问题一直是两国最容易引起情绪激动的争端之一。历史专家称，从30年代初到1945年，妓院中至少有数万人，其中很多是韩国人。在韩国，总共有238名女性公开了自己的经历，但眼下只有46人尚在人世，且大多已是八九十岁的高龄。
Of those 46, Lee Ok-seon, who is 88, and eight others sued Ms. Park. They were closely tied to an advocacy group and have often joined weekly protests in front of the Japanese Embassy in Seoul.
这46人中，88岁的李玉善(Lee Ok-seon)及另外八人对朴裕河提起了诉讼。她们与一个倡导团体关系紧密，而且时常参加日本驻首尔大使馆门前每周举行的抗议活动。
South Korea says that Japan bears legal responsibility for using coercion in recruiting the women and in running the brothels — a view shared by the Seoul court in its ruling on Wednesday.
韩国认为，日本应当为采取胁迫手段征召慰安妇的做法，以及经营慰安所的做法承担法律责任。在周三的判决中，首尔的法院也支持了这种立场。
Tokyo says that the issue was settled once and for all in a 1965 treaty restoring diplomatic ties. Some right-wing politicians in Japan have also angered Koreans by calling the women nothing but prostitutes.
日本则觉得，这一问题已经在1965年恢复外交关系的一项条约中得到了彻底解决。该国一些右翼政治人物曾声称，那些女性无非是妓女，这也激怒了韩国人。
Last month, the South Korean and Japanese governments announced what they called a “final and irreversible” settlement. In the deal, Japan expressed responsibility and made a new apology to the women, promising an $8.3 million fund to help provide old-age care.
上个月，韩国和日本政府宣布了一项“最终且不可逆转的解决方案”。在这份协议中，日本表示负有责任，并再一次向慰安妇道歉，承诺投入830万美元资金，帮助为这些年迈的慰安妇提供护理。