SEOUL, South Korea — Summing up a search that has been underway for more than a decade, a South Korean government commission said on Wednesday that the remains of nearly 2,750 people believed to be Koreans who were forced to work in Japan in the World War II era have been found.
韩国首尔——本周三，韩国政府一个委员会对十多年来的搜寻活动进行了总结，表示已经找到近2750具遗体，据信属于二战时期被强征到日本工作的韩国人。
Historians in South Korea estimate that at least 1.2 million Koreans were coerced, or sometimes duped, into laboring as part of Japan’s war efforts in Japan, China and elsewhere. They toiled in mines, airfields and factories for their colonial masters, and thousands died under brutal conditions. Their families in Korea were never told about the locations of their remains.
韩国历史学家估计，日本为了战争需要，至少强征了120万韩国人到日本、中国和其他国家工作，也有些人是被骗去的。他们在矿山、机场和工厂为殖民统治者辛苦劳作，有数以千计的人在残酷的工作条件下死亡。遗骸的位置从未告知过他们在韩国的家人。
South Korea and Japan began searching for those remains after Roh Moo-hyun, then the South Korean president, asked Junichiro Koizumi, then the Japanese prime minister, for help in returning them home in 2004.
2004年，时任韩国总统卢武铉向当时的日本首相小泉纯一郎寻求帮助，要让韩国劳工的遗骸回归故里。之后，韩国和日本就开始寻找这些遗骸。
From 2008 to 2010, the remains of 423 South Koreans who served in Japan’s Imperial Army as soldiers or workers were repatriated after they were found in a Japanese temple. But talks on additional repatriations stalled as bilateral relations deteriorated over disputes rooted in Japan’s rule of Korea from 1910 to 1945, especially over “comfort women” — Korean and other Asian women forced or lured into being sex slaves for Japanese soldiers.
从2008年到2010年，在日本一所寺庙发现了423名曾在日本帝国陆军充当士兵或劳工的韩国人的遗体，并被运送回国。但随着日韩关系的恶化，其他遗骸回归问题的谈判陷入了僵局。双方矛盾的根源集中在1910至1945年间日本对韩国的统治，尤其是“慰安妇”问题上——即韩国和其他亚洲国家妇女被强迫或者受骗成为日本军人的性奴。
On Wednesday, the South Korean commission set up in 2004 to investigate Japan’s forced recruitment of Korean laborers said that 2,745 sets of remains believed to belong to Korean workers have been discovered in 340 sites across Japan. The number could increase as the search continues, commission officials said.
2004年，韩国成立了一个委员会，专门调查日本强征韩国劳工的问题。本周三，该委员会称已经在日本的340个地方找到了2745具据信属于韩国劳工的遗体。委员会官员说，随着搜寻工作的继续开展，这个数目可能继续增加。
So far, officials said, they have found surviving relatives for only 153 sets of remains.
官员们说，迄今为止，他们只为153具遗骸找到了仍然在世的亲人。
Accusations of forced labor during Japanese colonial rule are among the issues that have contributed to growing tensions between the two countries. South Korean courts recently ordered Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and other Japanese companies to compensate dozens of former Korean workers for involuntary labor. About 300 Japanese companies still in operation are believed to have used such workers, South Korean officials said.
日本殖民统治时期强征韩国劳工的问题，是两国关系日益紧张的一个原因。韩国法院最近做出裁决，要求三菱重工(Mitsubishi Heavy Industries)等日本企业向数十名非自愿工作的前韩国劳工给予补偿。韩国官员说，在据信使用了这种劳工的日本企业中，有300家左右至今仍然在经营。