SEOUL, South Korea — A former South Korean intelligence chief accused of directing agents who posted online criticisms of liberal candidates during the 2012 presidential election campaign was convicted Thursday of violating a law that banned the spy agency from involvement in domestic politics.
韩国首尔——周四，被控在2012年总统大选期间指挥探员在网上发帖抨击自由派候选人的韩国情报机构前负责人遭法庭裁决违反了一项禁止情报机构干预国内政治的法律。
Won Sei-hoon, who served as director of the National Intelligence Service under President Park Geun-hye’s predecessor, Lee Myung-bak, was sentenced to two and a half years in prison, but the Seoul Central District Court suspended the sentence. Mr. Won had just been released from prison Tuesday after completing a 14-month sentence stemming from a separate corruption trial.
曾在韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的前任李明博(Lee Myung-bak)执政期间担任国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)院长的元世勋(Won Sei-Hoon)，被首尔中央地区法院(Seoul Central District Court)判处两年半徒刑，但缓期执行。元世勋此前在另一宗腐败案的审判中获判14个月，本周二刚刚刑满释放。
Prosecutors indicted Mr. Won in June of last year, saying that a secret team of National Intelligence Service agents had posted more than 1.2 million messages on Twitter and other forums in a bid to sway public opinion in favor of the conservative governing party and its leader, Ms. Park, ahead of the presidential and parliamentary elections in 2012.
检方于去年6月对元世勋正式提起诉讼，称在2012年总统和议会选举前夕，国家情报院的探员组织了一支秘密团队，在Twitter等论坛上散布了超过120万条消息，试图左右舆论，使公众支持保守派执政党及其领导人朴槿惠。
Many of the messages merely lauded government policies, but many others ridiculed liberal critics of the government and of Ms. Park, including Ms. Park’s rivals in the presidential election. Some messages called the liberal politicians “servants” of North Korea for holding views on the North that conservatives considered too conciliatory, prosecutors said.
许多帖子仅仅是称赞政府的政策，但还有大量帖子讽刺挖苦对政府和朴槿惠持批判态度的自由派人士，其中包括朴槿惠在总统选举中的对手。检方称，部分帖子称自由派政界人士是朝鲜的“仆人”，因为保守派认为，这些人对朝鲜的态度过于友好。
For the spy agency to “directly interfere with the free expression of ideas by the people with the aim of creating a certain public opinion cannot be tolerated under any pretext,” the court said in its ruling on Thursday. “This is a serious crime that shakes the foundation of democracy.”
该情报机构“无论以何种借口，以制造某种舆论为目的，直接干涉人们言论自由的作法，均是无法容忍的”，法院在周四的判决中称。“这是动摇民主根基的严重犯罪行为。”
But though Mr. Won was convicted of violating the law governing the spy agency, the court dismissed a separate charge: that he had violated the country’s election law, which prohibits public servants generally from interfering in elections. In explaining that decision, the court said Mr. Won had not ordered his agents to support or oppose any specific presidential candidate.
不过，尽管元世勋被判违反了情报机构监管法，但法院却驳回了对他的另一项指控——违反韩国选举法。选举法规定，公职人员一律不得干涉选举。在解释这一决定时，法院表示，元世勋并未下令手下的探员支持或反对具体某位总统候选人。
That finding spared Ms. Park a potentially serious political liability. Had Mr. Won been convicted of violating the election law, it would have provided fodder for critics of Ms. Park who say that the agency’s online smear campaign undermined the legitimacy of her election. Ms. Park, who was elected by a margin of about a million votes, has said that she neither ordered nor benefited from such a campaign.
这一裁决使得朴槿惠免于背上一项可能颇为沉重的政治负担。倘若元世勋违反选举法的罪名成立，就会给批评朴槿惠的人士留下把柄。这些人宣称，情报机构在网上抹黑的做法损害了她当选的合法性。朴槿惠以约100万张选票的优势当选，她本人表示，自己既没有下令采取这种竞选方式，也未从中受益。
Two other former senior officials of the spy agency who had been indicted on similar charges were each sentenced to a year in prison on Thursday, but their sentences were also suspended. Both the prosecutors and the defendants have a week to appeal the verdicts.
周四，国家情报院的另外两名前高级官员也因为类似指控而各被判处一年徒刑，但也是缓期执行。检方和被告均有一周的时间来对裁决结果提出上诉。
The intelligence service has denied trying to discredit opposition politicians, saying that its online messages were posted as part of a normal campaign of psychological warfare against North Korea. It said the North was increasingly using the Internet to spread misinformation in support of the Pyongyang government and to criticize South Korean policies, forcing its agents to defend those policies online.
情报院否认曾试图抹黑来自反对党的人士，并表示在网络上发帖，属于对朝心理战的常规行动。该机构表示，朝鲜正在越来越多地利用互联网来传播支持平壤政府、批判韩国政策的错误信息，所以情报人员不得不通过网络来为这些政策辩护。