JINDO, South Korea — The parents waited in dread through the night, huddled under blankets in this South Korean port town, staring out to sea for a sign that rescuers had found any of the 281 people, many of them high school students, still missing after a ferry sank on Wednesday.
韩国珍岛——家长们在恐惧中度过了一夜，他们蜷缩在毛毯下，待在韩国的这个港口小镇，盯着外面的大海，等待救援人员已找到281名失踪乘客中任何一人的消息。自一艘渡轮于周三沉没后，这些人至今杳无踪影，其中许多都是高中生。
They refused to sleep in a tent set up for them, preferring to scan the horizon for helicopters returning from the rescue effort 11 miles off the country’s southwest coast. As the hours passed with little news of what may be one of South Korea’s worst peacetime disasters, they demanded news from officials who said that fierce tides were keeping divers from entering the ship, which had mainly slipped beneath the waves long before.
他们拒绝睡在为他们搭建的帐篷里，宁可远眺地平线，寻找执行营救行动归来的直升机，救援地点距离韩国西南海岸有11英里（约17公里）。这可能是韩国和平时期最严重的灾难之一，而时间一小时一小时地过去，相关消息依然少之又少。家长们要求官员发布信息，后者说汹涌的大浪使得潜水员无法进入船舱。该船主体在许久之前就滑入了水下。
“Why are you not going in to save them?” one woman screamed. Another, Chung Hae-sook, the mother of a missing 16-year-old boy, echoed her rage: “There is no tomorrow for this,” she said. “My heart is turning to ashes.”
一名女性嘶声叫喊，“你们为什么不进去救他们？”一名16岁失踪少年的母亲郑海淑（Chung Hae-sook，音译）愤怒地附和说，“这事没有明天了。我已经心如死灰。”
By midnight, the Ministry of Security and Public Administration, which is coordinating the rescue efforts, reported that 175 passengers and crew members had been rescued. Six people were confirmed dead, including three 17-year-old students and a member of the ferry’s crew. But fears of a much higher death toll were stoked as survivors said they believed that many people had been trapped below deck. According to some who spoke to the local news media, passengers were told to remain in their seats and may have stayed there until it was too late.
午夜时分，协调营救行动的韩国安全行政部(Ministry of Security and Public Administration)报称，已有175名乘客和船员获救。有六人确认身亡，其中包括三名17岁的学生和一名船员。然而，对死亡人数大幅增加的恐惧正在加剧，因为幸存者说，他们确信有许多人被困在了甲板下面。一些幸存者告诉当地新闻媒体，乘客们被告知待在自己的座位上，因此可能固守座位，错过了逃生的机会。
“People were shouting, ‘Break the windows,’ but the water came up too quickly and many could not come outside,” Kim Seong-muk, a rescued passenger, told the television station YTN.
获救乘客金崇默(Kim Seong-muk)对YTN电视台说，“人们大喊，‘砸开船窗！’但水进来的速度太快，许多人都来不及跑出来。”
Survivors reported hearing a loud noise and feeling a jolt before the ship began to list and sink.
幸存者报告称，他们听到一声巨响，感到船晃了一晃，接下来，船开始倾斜沉没。
Of the 462 people aboard, 325 were students from Danwon High School in Ansan, south of Seoul. By midnight, about 75 of the students had been rescued. They had been on an overnight voyage to Jeju, a popular resort island, where they were scheduled for a four-day field trip and sightseeing.
船上共有462人，其中325人是首尔南边安山市檀园高中(Danwon High School)的学生。截至午夜，已有约75名学生获救。他们乘夜班船前往韩国的著名度假海岛济州岛，原本计划在那里进行为期四日的实地考察和观光。
The students, in their second year of high school, were taking the trip as a break before their last year of high school, when they must take difficult college entrance exams.
这些高二学生原本把此次行程当作高中最后一年之前的一次休整，届时他们必须参加颇有难度的大学入学考试。
One of the students who made it out, Kim Tae-young, said he had seen people in the ferry’s cafeteria and a game room on a level below him before the ship started listing.
得以生还的学生金泰荣(Kim Tae-young)说，船开始倾斜之前，他看到自己下面一层的自助餐厅和游戏室里还有乘客。
“The water rushed in, up to my neck, and it was difficult to climb to the top of the boat because it was badly tilted,” he told News Y, a cable channel. “I saw shipping containers tossed off the ship’s deck and floating in the water. I also saw a vending machine toppled and two girls trapped under it.”
“水冲进来，到了我脖子的深度，很难爬到船顶，因为船身严重倾斜，”金泰荣对另一个新闻频道News Y说。“我看到海运集装箱从船的甲板上甩落，浮在水面上。我还看到一个自动售货机倒了下来，两个女孩被压在了下面。”
The cause of the accident was not immediately clear. By nightfall, no South Korean official or analyst had raised the possibility of foul play by North Korea, which was accused of sinking a South Korean Navy ship with a torpedo in 2010, a charge the North denied.
事故原因尚不清楚。截至傍晚，韩国官员和分析人士都没有提出朝鲜暗中搞鬼的可能性。朝鲜曾被指控在2010年用鱼雷击沉了一艘韩国海军军舰，但却否认了该指控。
During a brief news conference on Wednesday, Kim Young-bung, an executive at the Cheonghaejin Marine Company, which operated the ship, offered the company’s “deepest apology” but few details about what had happened.
周三的简短新闻发布会上，负责运营遇难客轮的韩国清海镇船务有限公司(Cheonghaejin Shipping Co.)的高管金永朋(Kim Young-bung，音译)代表公司表达了“最深的歉意”，但却没提供什么事件细节。
Maritime police said they were questioning the ship’s captain, Lee Jun-seok, 69, and other surviving crew members while arranging for cranes to be dispatched to the scene, in the Yellow Sea, to try to lift the vessel.
海事警察说，他们正在讯问69岁的该船船长李俊石（Lee Jun-seok，音译）及其他幸存船员，并且安排了起重机前往事故现场黄海海域，设法打捞沉没客轮。
The 6,825-ton ferry, the Sewol, had been sailing from Incheon, a port west of Seoul, to Jeju, roughly 60 miles off the southern coast of South Korea, when it sent a distress signal Wednesday morning, setting off the rescue operation. Video showed rescuers scaling the side of the listing ship, pulling survivors out and placing them in baskets lowered by helicopters.
这艘名为“岁月号”(Sewol)的渡轮总重6825吨，事发时正从首尔以西的仁川港驶向济州岛，该岛距韩国南部海岸约97公里。渡轮于周三早发出求救信号，引发了救援行动。视频显示救援人员从侧面爬上倾斜的客轮，把幸存者拉出来，再放到直升机降下的吊篮里。
“We must not give up,” President Park Geun-hye said on Wednesday from the headquarters of the Ministry of Security and Public Administration. “We must do our best to rescue even one of those passengers and students who may not have escaped from the ship.”
周三，总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)在韩国安全行政部总部表示，“我们绝不能放弃。我们必须尽最大努力，哪怕救出一位没从船舱逃出的乘客和学生。”
Lee Gyeong-og, vice minister of security and public administration, said that 160 Navy and Coast Guard divers were working at the scene, but that their operations were hampered by rapid currents and poor underwater visibility.
安全行政部副部长李京玉(Lee Gyeong-og)表示，有160名海军和海岸警卫队潜水员在现场营救，但他们的工作因水流速度快及水下能见度低而受阻。
At around 4 a.m. on Thursday, a Coast Guard official in Jindo told parents that divers had conducted five searches but were waiting for better conditions before heading back down. The sea off western South Korea has strong tides.
周四凌晨4点左右，海岸警卫队的一名官员在珍岛告诉学生家长，潜水员已经进行了五次搜救，但目前正在等待天气条件转好，然后才能再次潜水搜救。韩国西部的海域有大浪。
Of those who were already confirmed dead, one was a 27-year-old female crew member who had been found dead in the water; another was a male student who died while being treated at a hospital. Rescuers later found at least two more students from the Ansan school who had died.
已确认的死者当中，有一名27岁的女性船员在水中被找到，另有一名男学生在医院抢救过程中死亡。此后，救援人员又发现了两名来自檀园高中的遇难者。
South Korea has not had a major ferry accident in two decades. The last was in 1994, when a tourist ferry caught fire on a lake, killing 30 people. A year earlier, 292 people died when an overloaded ferry, sailing despite warnings of bad weather, sank off the country’s west coast.
韩国近20年来没有发生过重大渡轮事故。最近的一次发生在1994年，当时一艘旅游渡轮在湖上起火，导致30人死亡。此前的一年，一艘超载渡轮不顾恶劣天气的警告在韩国西部沿海航行，最终倾覆并导致292人死亡。
On Wednesday, Mr. Lee of the security ministry declined to comment on the likelihood of finding more survivors. The ship sank in waters 104 feet deep, and the water temperature in the area was about 54 degrees Fahrenheit, cold enough to cause hypothermia after about two hours, officials said.
周三，安全行政部的李京玉拒绝就找到更多幸存者的几率置评。但官员表示，渡轮下沉的地方水深104英尺（约合32米），水温约为54华氏度（约合12摄氏度），水这么冷，浸泡2小时左右就足以导致体温过低。
The ship’s departure from Incheon on Tuesday evening was delayed by two hours because of heavy fog, officials said. The ship was also carrying 150 cars and trucks, below its capacity of 180.
韩国官员说，由于西部沿海大雾，“岁月号”周二晚从仁川离港的时间推迟了2个小时。该渡轮还载有150辆小汽车和卡车，没有超过180辆汽车的承载能力。
Mrs. Chung — the woman who was waiting in Jindo for news of her 16-year-old son, Park Sung-ho — said he had sent her a text message saying the ferry might not leave the dock, but later messaged her that it was departing and that he would return safely.
前文提及的郑女士正在珍岛等待16岁儿子朴盛镐（Park Sung-ho，音译）的消息。她表示，儿子曾给她发信息，说渡轮可能不会离开码头，但后来又发信息称渡轮已经离港，他会安全归来。
“I feel like the parents, including myself, are here waiting for our children to die,” she said.
她说，“我感觉家长们，包括我自己，都是在这里干等着我们的孩子遇难。”
YTN quoted surviving students describing a chaotic scene in which passengers tripped and bumped into one another and luggage was tossed about as the ship leaned precariously. People jumped into the water in life jackets and swam to fishing boats that had arrived near the sinking ship, they said. The passengers were wrapped in blankets and taken to shelters and hospitals in nearby ports.
有线电视新闻频道YTN引用一些学生的话描述了船上的混乱场面：乘客踉踉跄跄，撞在一起；船身严重倾斜，行李被甩到各处。学生们说，人们穿上救生衣跳入海中，游向已经到达沉船附近的渔船。人们给乘客们围上毛毯，把他们送往附近港口的安置场所和医院。
In a text message shown on the station’s broadcast, a student had written, “Dad, I can’t walk out because the ship is tilted too much, and I don’t see anyone in the corridor.” It was unclear if he made it out.
在新闻频道播放的一条短信中，一个学生写道，“爸爸，我出不来，因为船身过于倾斜。走道里什么人也看不见。”目前尚不清楚，这名学生是否逃了出来。
Kim Dong-soo, a truck driver who was on the Sewol and said he frequently took the ferry to Jeju, told News Y that the ship began leaning sharply after it made a sharp turn to the right. It was also sailing much closer to the coast than it usually does, he said.
卡车司机金东洙(Kim Dong-soo)说，他经常搭乘渡轮前往济州岛，出事时也在“岁月号”上。他对News Y有线电视频道说，当时船向右急转，随即开始急剧倾斜。他说，船当时的位置比平常离海岸近得多。
“I wonder why the rescuers who first got to the ship didn’t do anything about those 100 or 200 I think were trapped inside the ship,” he said. “They were just picking up those already on the top of the ship.”
“我不知道，首先到来的救援人员为什么没有采取任何措施，去救那些我觉得被困在船内的100或200名乘客，”他说，“他们光顾着救那些已经爬上船顶的人。”
The ferry, built in Japan in 1994 and operated by Cheonghaejin Marine since late 2012, could hold 920 passengers.
这艘渡轮是1994年在日本建造的，自2012年末开始由韩国清海镇船务有限公司运营，可载920名乘客。
For the parents waiting in the morning chill in Jindo, the day had been a roller-coaster ride of emotions. Soon after the accident, the ministry had given a much lower estimate of the number of missing, which it attributed to confusing reports from the scene.
家长们在珍岛的清晨寒气之中等待孩子的消息，对于他们来说，这一天经历了过山车般的情绪。事故发生后不久，安全行政部给出的估计失踪人员人数要比后来低得多，该部称这是因为现场的报告非常混乱。