South Korea’s Constitutional Court on Thursday struck down a 62-year-old law that made adultery an offense punishable by up to two years in prison, citing the country’s changing sexual mores and a growing emphasis on individual rights.
周四，韩国宪法法院废除了一项拥有62年历史的法律。该法规定，通奸属于犯罪，犯罪者可能面临最高达两年的有期徒刑。法院废除该法的理由是，韩国的性观念正在发生变化，而且个人权利也越来越受重视。
“It has become difficult to say that there is a consensus on whether adultery should be punished as a criminal offense,” five of the court’s nine justices said in a joint opinion. “It should be left to the free will and love of people to decide whether to maintain marriage, and the matter should not be externally forced through a criminal code.”
“现在已经很难说，人们在通奸是否应该作为刑事犯罪而受到惩罚的问题上持一致意见，”法院九名法官中的五名在联合意见书中说。“应该由人们的自由意志和爱来决定是否要维持婚姻，这件事不应根据刑事法规而遭到外部的强制干涉。”
In their opinion, the five justices also said they doubted that the law was still useful in preventing adultery. Instead, they said, it has often been used by spouses to force a divorce or by those outside the marriage to blackmail married women who have cheated on their husbands. (The stigma of adultery is greater for women, making it more difficult to blackmail men who have committed adultery.)
这五名法官还在他们的意见书中表示，他们怀疑该法是否还能有效制止通奸行为。他们声称，相反，婚姻一方经常利用此法强迫另一方离婚，婚姻关系之外的人也常常利用此法敲诈背叛丈夫的已婚女性。（对于女性而言，通奸所带来的耻辱更加严重，而敲诈存在通奸行为的男性往往更加困难。）
An estimated 53,000 South Koreans have been indicted under the law since the authorities began keeping count in 1985. But in recent years, it has been increasingly rare for defendants to go to prison, in part because courts have demanded stronger proof that sexual intercourse had taken place. In many cases, police officers, tipped off by a spouse, have raided motel rooms.
从1985年，官方开始统计以来，共有5.3万名韩国人依据该法受到起诉。但是近年来，被告去坐牢的情况越来越少见，这在一定程度上是因为法院开始要求人们提供更强有力的证据证明性关系的发生。很多时候，接到配偶通风报信的警察会突然前去搜查汽车旅馆的房间。
Additionally, more plaintiffs have been dropping charges after reaching financial settlements with their spouses.
此外，有越来越多的原告会因为与配偶达成经济和解而撤诉。
The adultery law was adopted in 1953, with the stated purpose of protecting women who had little recourse against cheating husbands in a male-dominated society. But divorce rates and women’s economic and legal standing have soared in the decades since, leaving many to argue that the law had outlived its usefulness.
通奸法于1953年得到通过，其初衷是保护那些在男性占主导的社会，对背叛自己的丈夫没有太多追索权的女性。但是，在此后的数十年间，离婚率和女性的经济和法律地位都出现大幅度上升，于是很多人都认为此法已失去意义。
Others, however, considered the ability to open an adultery case a necessary option for wronged wives in a society which, despite its rapid change, is still largely male-centered.
然而其他人认为，虽然社会变化速度很快，但男性仍然占据主导地位，所以对于受了委屈的妻子，有能力开启通奸案仍然是一个必要选项。
Under the law, cases could be brought against people only by their spouses, and if a spouse chose to drop the complaint, the prosecutors could not continue.
根据该法，只有配偶能提出这类诉讼，倘若配偶选择放弃申诉，检察官就不能继续追究。
The law had been challenged four times before at the Constitutional Court since 1990, always unsuccessfully. In the last attempt, in 2008 — in a case brought by a popular actress, Ok So-ri, whose husband had pressed a criminal complaint against her — the justices came within one vote of striking the law down.
自1990年以来，该法曾在宪法法院受到四次挑战，但都以失败告终。在2008年的最后一次尝试中——在颇受欢迎的女演员玉素利(Ok So-ri)引起的一个案件中，她的丈夫对她提起刑事诉讼——法官当时只差一票就能废除该法。
On Thursday, two other justices voted to declare the law unconstitutional for other reasons; one suggested that adultery should be punished, but not with a prison term. A two-thirds majority was required to strike down the law.
周四，另外两名法官以其他理由投票宣布该法违宪；一人建议，通奸应该接受惩罚，但不应该被判刑。要废除该法，三分之二的多数票是必须的。
The remaining two justices voted to uphold the law, warning that abolishing it could lead to “disorder in sexual morality,” encourage extramarital affairs and undermine family life.
其他两名法官投票维护该法，并发出警告，如果将其废除，就会导致“性道德陷入混乱状态”，从而鼓励婚外情，破坏家庭生活。
Three major women’s groups in South Korea supported the court’s decision to abolish what they called “an ineffectual law.” But its abolishment “doesn’t remove moral and ethical responsibility,” they said in a joint statement.
韩国的三个主要妇女团体称这项法律为“无效法律”，均支持法院废除该法的决定。但是，他们在联合声明中称，该法的废除“并不移除道德和伦理责任”。
Anh Il-hwan, an official with the Ministry of Gender Equality, said on Thursday that the ministry respected the court’s ruling. “However, we need to prepare measures to protect the women victimized by adultery and will deliberate with relevant bodies to do so,” he said.
性别平等部官员(Ministry of Gender Equality)安日焕（Anh Il-hwan，音）周四表示，该部尊重法院的裁决。他说， “但是，我们需要准备一些措施，以保护被通奸行为伤害的女性，而且还将与有关机构就这些措施进行商讨。”
Sungkyunkwan, an organization of Korean Confucianists that had championed the law, called the ruling “deplorable” and said that people should be ashamed of adultery.
韩国儒家组织成均馆(Sungkyunkwan)曾对该法表示支持，它认为法院的判决“很糟糕”，并说人们应该为通奸感到可耻。