SEOUL, South Korea — At first, doctors thought the 68-year-old man might have simple pneumonia. He coughed and wheezed his way through four hospitals before officials figured out, nine days later, that he had something far more serious and contagious.
韩国首尔——刚开始，医生以为这名68岁的老人只是得了肺炎。他不停地咳嗽，呼吸困难，辗转于四家医院之间。九天之后，官员们才弄清楚，他的病其实要比预想的严重得多，传染性也强得多。
Along the way, health officials said, the man infected dozens who then became potential carriers themselves and infected dozens more and counting.
卫生官员称，这名男子在此期间感染了数十人，而这些人随后成为了潜在的病毒携带者，继而又感染了数十人，如此这般延续下去。
The original diagnosis that missed what became South Korea’s first case of Middle East respiratory syndrome, or MERS, was possibly caused by incomplete information from the patient about his travels and the World Health Organization acknowledged that MERS was not an easy virus to identify early because its symptoms are similar to other respiratory infections, like a common cold. But it was especially problematic in South Korea because of peculiarities in the hospital system, health experts said Monday.
最初的诊断错过了这名韩国第一例中东呼吸综合征（Middle East Respiratory Syndrome，简称MERS）患者。之所以出现这种情况，可能是因为患者并未提供有关自己行程的完整信息，而且世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)也承认MERS病毒早期不易确诊，因为其症状与普通感冒等其他呼吸道感染相似。然而，卫生专家周一指出，韩国医院系统的特点导致了问题在这里尤其严重。
Patients jostle, cajole and name-drop to get referrals into the biggest hospitals, which they believe attract the best doctors. Family members and outside caregivers commingle with the sick in crowded emergency wards. They often stay with the patients in their rooms and do much of the nursing work — wiping sweat, emptying bedpans, changing sheets and exposing themselves to infections.
韩国患者认为，最大的医院拥有最好的医生。为了能转入这些医院，患者相互争抢、连哄带骗，还会搬出大人物来增加自己的几率。家属和外部看护人员与患者在拥挤的急诊病房里共处一室。他们往往会留在病房陪伴患者，并承担大部分的护理工作——擦汗、倒便盆、更换床单，同时他们自己也暴露在病毒之中。
“Our crowded hospital environment is a weakness,” said Cho Sung-il, a professor of epidemiology in the Graduate School of Public Health at Seoul National University. “Chances of close contact are higher in a South Korean hospital emergency room, for example, where seats and beds are usually arranged close together.”
“我们的医院非常拥挤，这是一个缺陷，”首尔大学公共卫生研究所(Graduate School of Public Health at Seoul National University)流行病学教授赵成日（Cho Sung-il，音）说。“在韩国医院急诊室发生密切接触的几率更高。例如，座位和床位往往紧挨在一起。”
As of Tuesday morning, the South Korean authorities had confirmed at least 95 MERS cases and were monitoring more than 2,500 people under quarantine for symptoms. At least seven patients have died.
截至周二上午，韩国官方确定了至少95个MERS病例，并且正在对2500余人进行隔离观察，看他们是否存在相关症状。目前已有至少七名患者死亡。
So many patients, including those in rural towns, seek medical care at large hospitals that securing a bed in a mega-hospital in Seoul, the capital, for a relative or friend has become a test of a person’s networking ability. Patients often visit small hospitals to get a referral to a bigger hospital.
包括乡镇居民在内的众多患者会来到大医院寻求治疗，以致于为亲朋好友在首都首尔的大型医院获取床位已经成为检验个人社交能力的一项标准。患者前往小医院通常是为了获得去大医院的转诊证明。
The two hospitals where the vast majority of MERS cases have occurred were among the biggest in their cities.
韩国的绝大多数MERS病例出现在两家医院，而它们均为所在城市中最大的医疗机构之一。
“Many people want to check into famous hospitals, some even waiting in their emergency rooms until a bed gets available,” said Kim Woo-joo, head of the Korean Society of Infectious Diseases, who is leading the government’s epidemiological study of the MERS outbreak. “In big hospitals, we see bottlenecks. This is a very Korean thing, and I think this is not a good situation when we have a new contagious virus breaking out.”
“很多人都想到有名的医院就医，一些人甚至会在急诊室一直等待下去，直到出现空床位，”大韩感染学会(Korean Society of Infectious Diseases)理事长金宇柱(Kim Woo-joo)说，“在大医院，我们发现人满为患。这是非常典型的韩国现象。我想，当有新的传染性病毒爆发时，情况就不妙了。”金宇柱负责牵头政府针对MERS疫情开展的流行病学研究。
In many ways South Korea is one of the world’s most technologically advanced countries, where most of the population is connected to the Internet and nearly everyone has a smartphone. But within a matter of days, it also has become known for the largest caseload of MERS outside of Saudi Arabia, where the disease first emerged in 2012.
从很多方面来看，韩国是世界上技术最先进的国家之一，大部分人口上网，几乎人人都有智能手机。不过，短短几天之内，韩国也因为成为除沙特阿拉伯之外MERS病例最多的国家而闻名。MERS最初于2012年在沙特阿拉伯被发现。
Researchers have traced MERS to a virus that is believed to have jumped from camels to humans. The virus can be spread by breathing the same air as an infected and coughing person in proximity. It causes high fevers and pneumonialike symptoms, and there is no cure.
研究人员已将MERS追溯到一种据信从骆驼传染给人类的病毒身上。当附近有受感染并且咳嗽的病患时，这种病毒可能会通过呼吸同样的空气而传播。它会引发高烧和与肺炎类似的症状，而且无法治愈。
The hospital odyssey of the first infected patient, known as the index case, began after May 11, when he developed a fever and began coughing. He visited a clinic in his hometown Asan, south of Seoul, on May 12, 14 and 15. Perplexed doctors, not knowing he had even visited Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates in early May, sent him to a bigger hospital, St. Mary’s, in Pyeongtaek, 37 miles south of Seoul.
第一位感染者（也被称为指示病例）求医的漫长征程开始于5月11日，这一天他首次出现了发烧和咳嗽的症状。在5月12日、14日和15日，他都曾前往位于首尔以南的家乡牙山的一家诊所就医。医生被难住了，而且也不知道他在5月初去过沙特阿拉伯和阿联酋，就让他去了一家更大的医院——首尔以南37英里处的平泽圣母医院。
With no improvement, he went to Seoul to seek better medical care, visiting a relatively small hospital there on May 17, where X-rays suggested pneumonia. The next day he was referred to the Samsung Medical Center in Seoul, one of the largest in South Korea, where doctors suspected he had MERS, learned of his Middle East visit, and isolated him. The correct diagnosis was confirmed on May 20.
病情仍然没有好转，于是他又来到首尔，希望获得更好的治疗。5月17日，他来到了一家小型医院，在那里拍摄的X光片显示，他患有肺炎。第二天，他来到了首尔的三星医疗中心(Samsung Medical Center)，这是韩国最大的医疗中心之一。在那里，医生怀疑他患有MERS，而且知道了他去过中东的情况，于是对他进行了隔离。这个正确的诊断在5月20日获得证实。
Mr. Kim said the crowded conditions at St. Mary’s had been ideal for the virus to spread. So far, 37 St. Mary’s patients have been confirmed as having caught the virus — nearly 40 percent of the known total.
金宇柱说，圣母医院的拥挤环境为病毒传播创造了理想的条件。迄今为止，圣母医院已有37名患者被证实感染了这一病毒——占已知总接触人数的40%。
“It must have been a period when the virus was most active in him and he was coughing out a lot of virus droplets,” Mr. Kim said.
“那一定是他体内的病毒最活跃的时期，他的咳嗦喷出了许多病毒飞沫，”金宇柱说。
One of the St. Mary’s patients infected by the index case later checked into the emergency ward of the Samsung hospital in Seoul, infecting at least 35 people there. Nearly 700 people who had been at the emergency ward have been quarantined.
一位被指示病例感染的圣母医院患者后来住进了首尔三星医院的急救病房，在那里传染了至少35人。近700名到过这里的急救病房的人员已被隔离。
There has been no sign of a panic among the wider public. But fears of the virus have led to the closings of nearly 2,000 kindergartens and schools and the cancellation of concerts and religious and social gatherings. Sales of face masks and hand sanitizer have soared. Baseball stadium attendance has plummeted.
目前在公众当中还没有出现恐慌迹象。不过，对这种病毒的恐惧已促使近2000所幼儿园和学校关闭，一些音乐会及宗教和社会活动也被取消。口罩和洗手液的销量飙升。棒球场馆的上座率则大幅下降。
In a sign of widening fear in Asia, the authorities in Hong Kong raised their three-stage response level on Monday from “alert” to “serious,” which means ports of entry will exert tighter arrival controls. The Hong Kong Center for Health Protection posted an advisory about the raised response on its website, urging people to “avoid unnecessary travel” to South Korea.
香港的应变级别一共分三个等级，目前已经从戒备升高到严重级，这显示出亚洲的恐惧在扩大。应变级别的上升意味着入境口岸将实施更加严格的管控。香港卫生防护中心在网站上发布了一则关于提高应变级别的公告，敦促人们“如非必要，避免到韩国旅游”。
The W.H.O., appeared to be less concerned, saying that it was not advising special actions at ports and airports in South Korea or travel or trade restrictions, “given the lack of evidence of sustained human-to-human transmission in the community.”
世界卫生组织(WHO)似乎不那么担心，该机构称，“鉴于目前尚未发现病毒可导致持续人传人的证据”，不会建议在韩国的港口和机场采取特殊措施，或是采取旅行或贸易上的限制。
Alison Clements-Hunt, a spokeswoman for the health organization, said that the virus pattern found in South Korea was in line with those monitored elsewhere. The testing on a virus sample in South Korea “shows nothing alarming in terms of mutations and change in what would be the transmissibility of the virus.”
这家卫生机构的发言人艾莉森·克莱门茨 - 亨特(Alison Clements-Hunt)说，在韩国发现的病毒特点与在其他地方监控到的是一致的。韩国的一个病毒样本的检测结果“没有显示出在变异和病毒传播能力的变化方面有值得警惕的地方。”
Nonetheless, she said the organization was sending a team of experts to South Korea. She also said frequent visits to patients at hospitals in some Asian cultures are “something that may need to be looked at in the light of MERS.”
但她表示，该机构正在向韩国派遣一支专家团队。她还说，在一些亚洲文化中有频繁到医院探望病人的传统，“考虑MERS的疫情，现在人们需要三思而后行。”
Some experts have faulted the South Korean government for the way it initially handled information on the outbreak. None of the hospitals where patients were infected had been alerted about the possibility of MERS.
一些专家谴责了韩国政府最初处理疫情信息的方式。此前，被感染者所在的医院都没有得到可能爆发MERS疫情的通知。
“Doctors were diagnosing the patients without knowing anything about MERS,” said Jee Sun-ha, a professor of public health at Yonsei University in Seoul. “Once the authorities detected the first case, they should have taken more aggressive steps, revealing the names of the hospitals the patients had visited and trying as much as possible to localize the outbreak.”
“在诊断这些患者时，医生们对MERS一无所知，”首尔延世大学(Yonsei University)的公共卫生教授池淳夏（Jee Sun-ha，音）说。“有关部门刚检测到第一个病例的时候，他们本应该采取更积极的措施，公布患者去过的医院的名单，尽可能地将疫情限制在有限范围内。”
It was only Sunday that the government revealed the names of all 24 hospitals the confirmed cases had visited — two and a half weeks after the first case was discovered. They have since added five more to the list.
然而直到上周日，政府才公布了确诊患者去过的全部24所医院的名单——此时距离首例患者确诊已经过去两周半的时间。此后，政府在名单中又增加了五所医院。
The government said it had been reluctant to release the names, fearing possible panic in the neighborhoods around the hospitals. After their names were released, some of the hospitals reported a plunge in the number of outpatients and even closed down temporarily.
韩国政府表示，之前曾不愿意公布这些医院的名称，是因为害怕可能引起医院周围社区的恐慌。在公布了名单后，一些医院报告称，门诊病人的数量大幅下降，有些门诊甚至暂时关闭。
But Choi Chang-woo, head of the civic group Citizens’ Solidarity for Safe Society, said that the government’s “monopoly on information,” which he said was rooted in South Korea’s authoritarian past, was partly to protect the business interests of big hospitals and keep people ignorant about mistakes.
不过，“公民团结实现安全社会”组织的负责人崔佑昌（Choi Chang-woo，音）说，政府的“信息垄断”在一定程度上是为了保护大型医院的商业利益，不让人们知道这些失误。他还说，这种信息垄断根植于韩国的独裁历史。
“They haven’t learned from the Sewol disaster,” Mr. Choi said, referring to the hundreds of deaths in the sinking of the Sewol ferry in April last year, often blamed on the government’s fumbled rescue. “This is what you get when your government’s top priority is not the safety of the people.”
“他们并没有从世越号的灾难中吸取教训，”崔佑昌说。他指的是去年4月导致数百人死亡的沉船事故，这起事故也常常被归咎于政府救援措施太过糟糕。“当政府的首要目标不是人民的安全时，就只能是这种结果。”
President Park Geun-hye’s weekly approval rating dropped six percentage points to 34 percent last week in the aftermath of the MERS outbreak, according to a survey released on Friday by Gallup Korea. On Monday, Ms. Park vowed an “all-out national response.”
韩国盖洛普(Gallup Korea)周五公布的一项调查显示，在MERS疫情爆发之后，总统朴槿惠的支持率上周下降了六个百分点，降至34%。周一，朴槿惠誓言要展开“彻底的全国响应措施”。