SEOUL, South Korea — Prime Minister Lee Wan-koo of South Korea formally stepped down on Monday, apologizing over a scandal in which he was accused of taking an illegal cash gift from a businessman.
韩国首尔——韩国总理李完九(Lee Wan-koo)周一正式下台，并就卷入受贿丑闻向国民道歉。
Mr. Lee was the second prime minister to resign under President Park Geun-hye. In South Korea, the prime minister’s post is largely a ceremonial job, with the administrative power concentrated in the president. But the minister is the No. 2 official in the government hierarchy, and his stepping down in disgrace reflects poorly on the president.
李完九是总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)任期内第二位辞职的总理。韩国的行政权集中在总统身上，总理在很大程度上只是一个礼节性职位。但总理在韩国政府的排位中属二号人物，因丑闻下台给总统朴槿惠带来了负面影响。
“I am deeply sorry to the people for causing trouble over the current situation,” Mr. Lee said in a brief farewell speech to his staff on Monday.
周一向幕僚告别时，李完九发表了简短讲话，他说：“我感到非常抱歉，为大家带来了这么多麻烦。”
Mr. Lee, who took office on Feb. 17, was one of the shortest-serving prime ministers in South Korean history. He now faces a possible summons from prosecutors who want to question him over a bribery allegation.
今年2月17日才上任的李完九是韩国历史上任期最短的总理之一。现在他可能会面临检方传唤，就受贿指控接受质询。
Mr. Lee offered to step down last Tuesday after an allegation emerged that he took 30 million won, or almost $28,000, in illegal cash donations from a South Korean businessman in 2013. Mr. Lee denied that he received that illegal cash and that he had ties to the businessman, Sung Wan-jong, but calls mounted for his resignation.
李完九在上周二提出辞职，此前他被指控于2013年非法收受韩国商人成完锺(Sung Wan-jong)3000万韩元（约合17万元人民币）的现金馈赠。虽然李完九否认曾收受贿赂，也不承认他与成完锺有关，但是韩国民众要求他下台的呼声越来越高。
Ms. Park accepted his resignation on Monday, shortly after returning from a trip to South America.
周一，结束对南美的访问后返韩不久的朴槿惠批准了李完九的辞呈。
Mr. Sung, who faced arrest on corruption charges, hanged himself from a tree on April 9. But hours before he killed himself, he gave a telephone interview to a South Korean newspaper. In the interview and in a handwritten memo found with his body, Mr. Sung detailed illegal cash gifts that he said he had given to Mr. Lee and other important political allies of Ms. Park’s, including both of her former chiefs of staff.
即将因贪腐指控被逮捕的成完锺于4月9日自缢身亡。在自杀前几个小时，他接受了一家韩国报纸的电话采访。通过那次采访以及死后在身上发现的一份手写备忘录，他详细披露了自己曾经赠送现金给李完九以及朴槿惠的其它一些重要政治盟友，甚至包括两名前任幕僚长。
Prosecutors began an investigation, even as the rival political parties campaigned for the election on Wednesday for four vacant parliamentary seats.
韩国检方开始调查此案，尽管各敌对政党正在为周三的选举展开竞选活动。该选举是为了填补四个国会议席空缺。
Ms. Park’s approval ratings suffered heavily from a ferry sinking that killed more than 300 people a year ago. Mr. Lee’s predecessor, Chung Hong-won, had resigned after the ferry disaster.
一年前导致300余人遇难的“世越号”沉船事件，让朴槿惠的支持率大幅下滑。上一任总理郑烘原(Chung Hong-won)也因此事引咎辞职。
But even if South Koreans are disappointed by the Park government’s failure to rescue the ferry passengers and with its recent scandals, they are also skeptical of her party’s main opposition, the New Politics Alliance for Democracy.
尽管韩国民众对朴槿惠政府在沉船事件之后的搜救工作以及近期的丑闻感到失望，但他们对主要反对党“新政治民主联盟”(New Politics Alliance for Democracy)也同样持怀疑态度。
Approval ratings for Saenuri, Ms. Park’s party, dropped in the wake of the Lee scandal but were still higher than those of the rival party, according to published survey results.
民调显示，朴槿惠所在的“新国家党”(Saenuri)支持率随着李完九丑闻有所下滑，但仍旧领先于其它反对党。
Ms. Park now faces a grueling task in selecting Mr. Lee’s successor.
如何选择下一任总理对于朴槿惠来说很棘手。