SEOUL, South Korea — American officials told South Korea’s president they were willing to hold direct negotiations with North Korea, a spokesman for President Moon Jae-in said on Tuesday, indicating a shift in the Trump administration’s policy.
韩国首尔——韩国总统文在寅的一位发言人周二表示，美国官员对韩国总统说，他们愿意与朝鲜进行直接谈判。这表明特朗普政府的政策发生了转变。
The statement came just days after Vice President Mike Pence visited Pyeongchang, South Korea, which is hosting the Winter Olympics, and met with Mr. Moon. Since the vice president’s departure on Saturday, reports of an understanding between Washington and Seoul on the possibility of dialogue have appeared in the news media, but South Korean officials would not confirm them until Tuesday.
就在这个声明发表的几天前，美国副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)曾来到正在主办冬季奥运会的韩国平昌，与文在寅会面。自从彭斯周六离开以来，有关华盛顿就可能的对话与首尔达成共识的报道已经见诸新闻媒体，但韩国官员直到周二才证实了这一消息。
“The United States too looks positively at South-North Korean dialogue and has expressed its willingness to start dialogue with the North,” Mr. Moon’s spokesman, Kim Eui-kyeom, told reporters.
“美国对韩朝对话也表现出积极的态度，并表示美国愿意开始与朝鲜展开对话，”文在寅的发言人金宜谦(Kim Eui-kyeom)对记者说。
Dialogue with the North has been used by successive American administrations as a carrot — paired with the stick of sanctions — in the hopes of getting the isolated nation to end its nuclear weapons program. Until recently, Trump administration officials insisted no such meetings would take place until the North had first taken steps toward disarmament.
美国历届政府一直把与朝鲜对话作为胡萝卜，将其与制裁的大棒结合使用，希望能让这个孤立的国家结束其核武器计划。直到最近，特朗普政府官员都坚称，在朝鲜迈出裁军措施的第一步前，不会与朝鲜进行面对面的对话。
President Trump recently described Mr. Moon’s overtures to the North Koreans as “appeasement.” And when Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said in December that the United States was willing to hold a “meeting without precondition,” the White House insisted his comments were premature.
特朗普总统最近曾把文在寅对朝鲜的友好姿态描述为“绥靖”。当去年12月，美国国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)表示，美国愿意进行“没有先决条件的会面”时，白宫坚称，蒂勒森的说法为时过早。
But in an interview with The Washington Post after he left South Korea, Mr. Pence suggested that the United States was open to a meeting, even indicating that it would enter talks without preconditions.
但离开韩国后，彭斯在接受《华盛顿邮报》采访时说，美国对与朝鲜对话持开放态度；他甚至表示，美国可以在没有先决条件的情况下举行谈判。
“So the maximum pressure campaign is going to continue and intensify,” Mr. Pence said of the punishing sanctions imposed on the North by the United Nations. “But if you want to talk, we’ll talk.”
“所以，最大压力的施加将继续和强化，”彭斯说，他指的是联合国对朝鲜实施的惩罚性制裁。“但如果他们想谈判，我们可以谈。”
Agreeing to talks before the North Koreans have demonstrated a willingness to dismantle their weapons program would be a subtle but potentially significant shift in Washington’s approach, and a win for Mr. Moon, who has hoped to bring North Korea and the United States to the negotiating table.
对于华盛顿的对朝政策来说，在朝鲜表示愿意放弃核武器计划之前就同意与之进行谈判，将是一个微妙而具有潜在重大意义的转变。这对文在寅来说也是一种胜利，他一直希望让朝鲜和美国走到谈判桌上来。
When Mr. Pence and Mr. Moon met last week, the allies apparently found common ground: They would agree to talks without set rules, but they will continue to use sanctions as leverage.
彭斯和文在寅上周会晤时，作为盟友的美韩两国看来找到了共同点：他们将在不设置条件的情况下进行谈判，但他们将继续把制裁作为筹码。
“President Moon and I reflected last night on the need to do something fundamentally different,” Mr. Pence told reporters on Friday after meeting with the South Korean leader.
“我和文在寅总统昨晚认真思考了需要做一些本质上不同的事情的问题，”彭斯在周五与韩国领导人会面后接受记者采访时说。
The allies, he said, would demand “at the outset of any new dialogue or negotiations” that North Korea “put denuclearization on the table and take concrete steps with the world community to dismantle, permanently and irreversibly, their nuclear and ballistic missile programs.”
他说，美韩两国在“任何新的对话或谈判开始的时候”将要求朝鲜“将无核化问题放在谈判桌上来，并在有国际社会参与的情况下采取具体步骤，永久地、不可逆转地废除他们的核武器和弹道导弹项目。”
“Then, and only then, will the world community consider negotiating and making changes in the sanctions regime that’s placed on them today,” Mr. Pence said.
“那之后，且只有在那之后，国际社会才会考虑谈判或改变目前对他们采取的制裁体制，”彭斯说。
During Mr. Pence’s trip to South Korea, Kim Yo-jong, the sister and special envoy of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, also visited the South as part of an Olympic delegation. She extended an invitation from her brother to Mr. Moon for a summit meeting in North Korea.
在彭斯访问韩国期间，朝鲜领导人金正恩的妹妹及特使金与正，作为朝鲜奥运代表团的成员，也访问了韩国。她代表哥哥向文在寅发出邀请，请他前来朝鲜举行峰会。
Mr. Moon, who invited athletes from the North to participate in the Olympics — where they marched with South Korean athletes under a united Korean flag during the opening ceremony — has seen the Games as an important step toward promoting peace on the Korean Peninsula.
文在寅邀请了朝鲜运动员参加奥运会，朝鲜和韩国的运动员在开幕式上打着朝鲜半岛旗一起入场。文在寅一直把奥运会当作促进朝鲜半岛和平的一个重要步骤。
If Mr. Pence’s comments reflect official White House policy, it could mean that the Trump administration has been heartened by a lull in North Korea’s nuclear and missile tests in recent weeks and an emerging détente between the two Koreas.
如果彭斯的说法反映了白宫的官方政策，这可能意味着特朗普政府因朝鲜最近几周暂停了核试验和导弹试验受到鼓舞，也对韩朝两国关系的缓和感到振奋。
North Korea has not conducted any major weapons tests since Nov. 29, when it launched an intercontinental ballistic missile powerful enough to reach the mainland United States.
自去年11月29日发射了一枚射程足以达到美国大陆的洲际弹道导弹以来，朝鲜还没有进行过任何大型的武器试验。
Even if talks start between North Korea and United States, the gap between the countries remains wide.
即使朝鲜能与美国开始进行会谈，两国之间的鸿沟依然巨大。
North Korea has said that it would not bargain away its weapons, and would only discuss mutual arms reduction.
朝鲜曾表示不会在谈判中放弃自己的武器，只会讨论双边裁减军备的问题。
Some analysts said North Korea would never give up its nuclear weapons, and that it would use any future talks with Washington to be accepted as a nuclear power and win large economic concessions, in return for agreeing not to advance its nuclear weapons program any further.
一些分析人士说，朝鲜永远不会放弃其核武器。朝鲜会利用任何未来与华盛顿对话的机会，让美国接受朝鲜为一个拥核国家，从而赢得巨大的经济让步。作为交换，朝鲜将同意不进一步加强自己的核武器计划。
Others analysts believe the North is willing to talk because it desperately wants to find a way to ease the sanctions that have taken a toll on its economy.
其他分析人士认为，朝鲜之所以愿意谈判，是因为其迫切希望找到缓解经济制裁的方法。制裁已经对朝鲜经济造成损害。