SEOUL, South Korea — The number of South Koreans infected with Middle East respiratory syndrome increased to 87 on Monday after the government identified additional cases. It also said that an 80-year-old man had died, bringing the number of deaths linked to the virus in South Korea to six.
韩国首尔——周一，韩国政府确定中东呼吸综合征（Middle East Respiratory Syndrome，简称MERS）有新增病例出现，从而使该国的感染人数增至87人。政府还通报，一名80岁的男子病亡，令韩国与该病毒有关的死亡人数增至6人。
The spread of the virus in South Korea, which in a matter of days has become the worst-afflicted country besides Saudi Arabia, has caused concern throughout Asia. The health authorities in Hong Kong raised their three-stage response level on Monday from “alert” to “serious,” which means ports of entry will exert tighter arrival controls. The Hong Kong Center for Health Protection posted an advisory about the raised response on its website, urging people to “avoid unnecessary travel” to South Korea.
这种病毒在韩国的传播，引发了亚洲各地的担忧。数日之内，韩国就成为了仅次于沙特阿拉伯的疫情最严重的国家。周一，香港的卫生部门决定把其三级应变措施由之前的“戒备”提升至“严重”级别。这意味着入境口岸将实施更严格的到达控制。香港卫生署卫生防护中心在其网站上发布了一条有关提高应变级别的建议，敦促人们“如非必要”，应避免前往韩国。
The World Health Organization has not issued any special warnings for South Korea and has reaffirmed its confidence that the South Korean health system can overcome the breakout of the disease, known as MERS.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)尚未针对韩国发布任何特别警告，重申它确信韩国卫生系统能够妥善处理MERS疫情。
Nonetheless the organization is closely monitoring the progression of the disease, which causes high fever and pneumonia-like symptoms, and is spread through close contact among humans. It is believed to have first been spread to humans from camels in Saudi Arabia three years ago and has now been seen in at least 25 countries.
不过，世卫组织正在密切监测MERS的发展状况。这种病毒会引发高烧和类似肺炎的症状，可以通过人与人之间的密切接触进行传播。据信，该病毒最初是三年前在沙特阿拉伯从骆驼传染给人类的，目前已出现在至少25个国家。
South Korean officials revealed the names and locations of all 24 hospitals that had confirmed cases after critics accused the government of helping stoke fear and risking a spread of the virus by withholding the information. So far, confirmed cases have infected others only in six of the 24 hospitals they passed through.
批评人士指责韩国政府隐瞒医院信息，从而助长了恐慌情绪，加大了病毒传播的风险。此后，韩国官方公开了有过确诊病例的全部24家医院的名字和地址。到目前为止，确诊患者仅在他们到访过的24家医院中的6家感染过其他人。
“As the numbers of patients and people under quarantine continued to increase, the government decided to take strong steps to help ease the people’s concern and fears,” Deputy Prime Minister Choi Kyung-hwan said at a news conference on Sunday where the names of the hospitals were revealed. Officials said that they had already quarantined people who may have come in contact with infected patients in the hospitals.
“随着患者和接受隔离检疫的人数不断增加，政府决定采取强有力的措施来缓解人们的担忧和恐惧，”副总理崔炅焕(Choi Kyung-hwan)在周日的新闻发布会上说。这些医院的名字就是在此次发布会上公开的。官方表示，已对可能在这些医院里与患者有过接触的人进行了隔离。
Until now, the government had repeatedly declined to reveal the names of all the hospitals, insisting that doing so would incite a panic in the neighborhoods nearby. But many of the names have been circulating through social media for several days.
此前，政府多次拒绝公开所有医院的名字，并坚持认为那样做会在附近社区引起恐慌。但多家医院的名字早已在社交媒体上流传了好几天。
The South Korean outbreak, the largest reported outside the Middle East, began in St. Mary’s Hospital in Pyeongtaek, a city 37 miles south of Seoul, the capital. The first or so-called index patient, a man who had traveled to the Middle East, was hospitalized at St. Mary’s in May. Since then, 35 other cases have been confirmed at the hospital.
韩国的疫情是目前有报道的中东以外最大规模的爆发。疫情始于平泽市圣母医院(St. Mary's Hospital)，而该市位于首都首尔以南37英里（约合60公里）的地方。第一个病人——即“首发患者”——是一名去过中东地区的男子。他5月份曾在圣母医院住院治疗。此后，该院已确诊了其他35个病例。
The government first identified the Pyeongtaek hospital on Friday, saying that it was trying to find and monitor everyone who had been there during a two-week period in May.
政府在周五首先公布了平泽这家医院的名字，并表示正在努力寻找并观察在5月份其中两周的时间里到过这家医院的所有人。
Officials feared “a second wave” of infections after one of the patients from St. Mary’s checked into the emergency room of the Samsung Medical Center in Seoul, one of the largest hospitals in South Korea, on May 27.
圣母医院的一名患者曾于5月27日在位于首尔的大型医院——三星医疗中心——看过急诊。官员们担心此事会引起感染的“第二轮爆发”。
So far, 17 cases have been confirmed among people who spent time in the Samsung emergency room, including 10 of the 14 new cases the Health Ministry reported on Sunday. One of the 10 was a 74-year-old man who died on Friday.
迄今为止，曾在三星急诊室与该名患者发生过一定时间的接触的人当中，已有17人被确诊，其中包括卫生部周日报告的14个新增病例中的10例。上述10例患者中，一名74岁的男子于上周五去世。
As health experts test people who were recently in the Samsung hospital’s emergency room, “they expect more MERS cases to be found” over the next several days, the Health Ministry said in a statement.
卫生部在声明中表示，随着医疗专家对最近到过三星医院急诊室的人进行检查，在未来几天内，“他们预计会发现更多的MERS病例。”
More than 1,800 people believed to have been in contact with a confirmed patient were being monitored in state-run facilities or were under quarantine at home. On Sunday, Mr. Choi said that the government planned to assign a public servant to each of those people to ensure a proper quarantine. It will also monitor their cellphone signals so that the health authorities will be alerted if any of them breaks out of quarantine, he said.
据信与确诊患者发生过接触的1800多人已在政府开设的医疗设施或自己家中隔离观察。崔炅焕周日表示，政府打算向每名隔离者派一名公职人员，以确保他们得到适当的隔离。他说，政府还将监控他们的手机信号，一旦其中有人离开隔离设施，卫生部门将收到报警。
Fear of infection has compelled more than 1,160 kindergartens and schools in South Korea to temporarily close.
对感染的恐惧已迫使韩国逾1160所幼儿园和学校临时关闭。