SEOUL, South Korea — The Defense Ministry of South Korea said Tuesday that North Korea appeared to have made a “significant” advance toward making a nuclear warhead small enough to fit onto a long-range missile capable of reaching the West Coast of the United States. The ministry, which included the assessment in its latest white paper, also suggested that the North now had a missile that could fly that far.
韩国首尔——韩国国防部周二宣布，迹象显示朝鲜已经在制造小型核弹头方面取得“重大”进展，这类小型核弹头可以装载在能够攻击到美国西海岸的远程导弹上。国防部在其最新的白皮书中作出了以上评估，同时还示意朝鲜目前已经拥有了能够飞这么远的导弹。
Ministry officials stressed that North Korea had yet to conduct a test to demonstrate an ability to deliver a nuclear warhead by missile at such a long distance. The white paper also did not elaborate on how South Korean officials had reached their conclusions, except for noting the North’s success in putting a satellite into orbit on a long-range rocket in 2012 and its third underground nuclear test in February 2013.
国防部官员强调，朝鲜尚未进行核试验以显示其利用导弹如此远距离发射核弹的能力。白皮书也没有详细说明韩国官员是如何作出以上结论的，只是提到朝鲜在2012年利用远程火箭成功将卫星送入轨道，并在2013年2月进行了第三次地下核试验。
The South’s assessments, if correct, could change calculations about the vulnerability of the United States.
韩国的此次评估倘若属实，将改变美国关于自身安全脆弱程度的估算。
American officials have struggled for years to figure out how close North Korea has come to building a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile and have sometimes issued conflicting conclusions. In early 2011, Robert M. Gates, who was the defense secretary, said that North Korea was within five years of being able to strike the continental United States with an intercontinental ballistic missile.
美国官员数年来一直在试图弄清，朝鲜究竟有多接近成功造出能装载核弹头的洲际导弹，他们常常得出不同的结论。在2011年初，时任国防部长的罗伯特·M·盖茨表示，再有五年时间，朝鲜就会有利用洲际导弹打击美国本土的能力。
In April 2013, the United States Defense Intelligence Agency said that it had “moderate confidence” that North Korea had mastered the technology of building a miniaturized weapon to fit atop a missile. Within days, however, President Obama said he did not believe that the North had that capability.
2013年4月，美国防务情报部门称其“较有信心”地认为，朝鲜已经掌握了制造能够装载在导弹上的小型武器。然而几天后，奥巴马总统表示他不相信朝鲜有这种能力。
Then last October, the commander of the American forces in South Korea, Gen. Curtis Scaparrotti of the Army, effectively sided with the Defense Intelligence Agency. But he too cautioned that North Korea had not tested a miniaturized weapon, and said that for a weapon “that complex, without it being tested, the probability of it being effective is pretty darn low.”
去年10月，驻韩美军司令、陆军中将柯蒂斯·斯卡帕罗蒂有力支持了防务情报部门的立场。但他对朝鲜是否已经试验了小型武器态度谨慎，他表示，“未经试验过的、如此复杂的武器，具备实际打击能力的可能性真的非常低。”
The South Korean defense white paper noted another growing threat from North Korea, saying that it has boosted its numbers of cyber warfare specialists to 6,000. It did not disclose how South Korea had acquired the estimate.
韩国的防务白皮书还提到另一个来自朝鲜的日益增长的威胁，白皮书称，朝鲜已经将其网络战专家人数大大提高到了6000人。但白皮书没有说明其如何得出的这个估计。