SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s foreign minister indicated strongly on Monday that her government would honor an agreement to deploy an American missile-defense system despite protests and economic retaliation from China.
韩国首尔——韩国外交部长周一强烈暗示，尽管受到中国的抗议和经济报复，但韩国政府会按照协议部署美国的导弹防御系统。
The deployment of the antimissile battery, known as Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, had been approved under Park Geun-hye, the South Korean president who was ousted on corruption charges in March.
“末段高空防御系统”（Terminal High Altitude Area Defense，简称萨德）反导系统的部署是韩国前总统朴槿惠执政时批准的，朴槿惠已因腐败指控在今年3月被迫下台。
But President Moon Jae-in, who replaced Ms. Park in a special election last month, has cast doubt on the deal.
在上个月举行在特别选举中，文在寅取代朴槿惠担任总统，让人们对反导系统的继续部署产生了怀疑。
And the fate of the missile battery, some of whose key components have already been installed in South Korea, has threatened to become a contentious topic when Mr. Moon meets with President Trump in Washington this week.
文在寅于本周在华盛顿与特朗普会面时，反导系统继续部署的命运有成为有争议话题的危险，韩国已经安装了该系统的一些重要部分。
Since taking office, Mr. Moon has ordered his government to stop installing additional components of the Thaad battery until it completes a domestic review, including an environmental assessment.
文在寅上任后曾下令政府停止安装萨德反导系统的其他部分，直到韩国完成对其的评估，包括环境评估。
That move has provoked fears in Washington that Mr. Moon might be looking for an excuse to cancel the deal, even though he insisted that it did not mean that his government would reverse the decision made under Ms. Park.
此举引起了华盛顿的担忧，美国担心文在寅可能在寻找一个停止部署的借口，虽然他坚称，这并不意味着他的政府会扭转朴槿惠政府的决定。
On Monday, the South Korean foreign minister, Kang Kyung-wha, said the domestic review was to strengthen public support for the missile system by shoring up its political legitimacy. Calling the deployment “an alliance decision,” she said South Korea would “continue to collaborate on the basis of mutual trust.”
周一，韩国外长康京和表示，国内评估是通过巩固反导系统的合法性，加强公众对其的支持。她称部署反导系统是“盟友间的决定”，并说韩国将“在相互信任的基础上继续合作”。
“My government has no intention to basically reverse the commitments made in the spirit of” the alliance, Ms. Kang said at a forum jointly organized by the South Korean daily JoongAng Ilbo and the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a think tank based in Washington.
“我国政府并不打算在本质上改变其本着（盟友）精神做出的承诺，”康京和在韩国报纸《中央日报》与华盛顿智库“战略与国际研究中心”联合举办的论坛上表示。
The United States and Ms. Park’s government had insisted that Thaad was necessary to guard against the growing ballistic missile threats from North Korea.
美国和朴槿惠的政府坚持认为，有必要部署萨德，以防范来自朝鲜的日益增长的弹道导弹威胁。
But China has vehemently criticized the Thaad deployment at its doorstep, calling it a threat to its own national security. In recent months, many South Korean brands have been boycotted in China in what was considered to be economic retaliation.
但中国强烈反对在自己的门口部署萨德，称其对国家安全构成威胁。近几个月来，许多韩国品牌在中国受到抵制，韩国认为这是经济报复。
On the campaign trail, Mr. Moon expressed doubt that Ms. Park’s decision was in the country’s best interest. He also questioned whether Thaad would be effective in defending South Korea from the North’s missiles.
在竞选活动中，文在寅曾对朴槿惠的决定是否符合国家的最大利益表示怀疑。他也曾怀疑“萨德”能否有效地保护韩国不受朝鲜导弹的打击。
As he and his conservative rivals have bickered over the system, it has become a crucial test of Mr. Moon’s attitude toward the alliance with Washington.
随着他与保守派对手们在部署萨德问题上不断争吵，这个问题已构成文在寅对韩国与美国联盟的态度的关键考验。
Since his election, however, Mr. Moon has sought to dispel misgivings that his government would weaken that relationship, repeatedly emphasizing its importance. With North Korea’s missile programs advancing, he has also vowed to bolster South Korea’s defense.
然而，自从当选以来，文在寅通过反复强调韩美联盟的重要性，一直在试图消除人们对他的政府会削弱这一联盟的疑虑。随着朝鲜导弹计划的推进，文在寅也发誓，要加强韩国的防务。
Ms. Kang’s remark on Monday was one of the clearest indications from Mr. Moon’s government that it would honor the Thaad deal for the sake of the alliance.
康京和周一的说法是来自文在寅政府最明确的信号之一，表明政府为了美韩联盟将遵守有关萨德的协议。
Two days earlier, thousands of demonstrators briefly encircled the American Embassy in central Seoul during a peaceful anti-Thaad march.
两天前，数千名示威者曾围着位于首尔中部的美国大使馆举行了反对萨德的短暂游行。
Ms. Kang also addressed another concern in Washington by saying that her government would not hurry to try to reopen a jointly run industrial complex in the North Korean city of Kaesong. South Korea closed the complex last year after the North’s nuclear and long-range rocket tests.
康京和还消除了华盛顿的另一个忧虑，她说，韩国政府不会急于试图重新开启设在朝鲜开城的韩朝联合经营的工业园区。去年朝鲜进行了核试验和远程火箭试验后，韩国关闭了这个工业园区。
During the election campaign, some aides to Mr. Moon had called for the reopening as part of Mr. Moon’s program of fostering dialogue and exchanges with North Korea. But American politicians and former government officials feared that the reopening of Kaesong, which had been a key source of hard currency for Pyongyang, would undermine international efforts to squeeze its ability to raise cash.
在竞选期间，文在寅的一些助手曾呼吁重新开启园区，将其作为文在寅与朝鲜进行对话与交流的计划的一部分。但美国政治人士和政府前官员担心，重新开启园区会削弱国际社会限制平壤获得硬通货的努力，因为开城是朝鲜的一个重要外汇来源。
“We will pursue this only under the right circumstances,” Ms. Kang said. “It is something that can be pursued at a later stage when we are assured of progress in dealing with the North Korean nuclear and missile threats, and we will do so in closest consultations with the United States.”
“我们只会在适当的情况下才会这样做，”康京和说。“这件事可以留到将来去做，在我们确信在对付朝鲜的核武器和导弹威胁方面取得了进展的时候，而且我们将在与美国进行了密切协商的情况下才这样做。”