JINDO, South Korea — No. 150, a boy, had a snaggletooth. No. 111, a girl, was wearing pink slippers and a hairband on her right wrist. No. 87 had on pajama pants with teddy bears.
韩国珍岛——150号，男孩，有龅牙。111号，女孩，穿着一双粉拖鞋，右腕上套着一个发圈。87号穿着一条睡裤，上面有泰迪熊的图案。
No. 93 was clutching a Roman Catholic rosary in her left hand.
93号的左手紧握着一串罗马天主教念珠。
The descriptions, some rendered in forensic detail, are the only evidence that many parents of the teenagers who died on South Korea’s doomed ferry have of their children’s fate. As bodies are steadily recovered from the sunken ship, they are carried to shore and the process of identifying them begins — starting with descriptions written on white boards in a tent set up for the grieving relatives.
这些描述，是许多家长在获悉孩子死讯时掌握的唯一证据，他们的子女是十几岁的青少年，在被厄运笼罩的韩国渡轮沉没时遇难，其中有部分描述是以法医检验的方式提供的细节。随着沉船上的尸体被逐步地打捞上来，它们被送上了岸，当局开始启动辨认遗体的程序——第一步是在白板上描述遗体的情况，这些白板被安放在为悲痛的亲属设立的帐篷里。
Eom Ji-young is one of the many mothers still waiting for word of their children.
许多母亲仍在等待着关于自己孩子的只言片语，严芝英（Eom Ji-young，音）是其中的一员。
Several times an hour, she rises from the mattress in the tent city where she has kept vigil since the ferry sank last week. Her head bowed, her shoulders slumped, Ms. Eom, 37, walks down the road and enters the tent with the five white boards, searching for evidence of her 16-year-old daughter, Park Yae-ji.
每小时，她都会从床垫上起身好几次，自渡轮于上周沉没以来，她就一直待在这片由帐篷组成的营区里，彻夜守望。37岁的严芝英低着头、垂着肩，走到路那头，进入安放了五块白板的帐篷，搜寻着她16岁的女儿朴雅枝（Park Yae-ji，音）的信息。
New descriptions are added less often than Ms. Eom checks, but she comes anyway, to be sure.
新描述信息的添加频率比严芝英的查看频率要低，可她还是会过来，以确保自己不漏掉任何东西。
“I can’t sleep,” she said after another visit, a school photo of Yae-ji hanging from a lanyard around her neck. “What if she comes in? What if she’s waiting for me? She’s been waiting for me all this time inside the sea, and I don’t sleep.”
在再次查看白板后，她说，“我睡不着。”严芝英的脖子上用带子挂着女儿在学校的照片。“她如果进来了怎么办？她如果在等我怎么办？这段时间她一直在海里等我，我睡不着。”
As Ms. Eom moves back and forth between the two points that have delineated her life here, her mind is on a third point, in mist-shrouded waters off the south coast of Jindo. Eleven miles off shore, teams of divers working round the clock are urgently searching the ship, which rests upside down on the seabed in dark waters at a depth of more than 100 feet.
严芝英在这两点之间来回往复，这两个点勾勒了她在此间的生活。然而同时，她的心思却放在第三个点上，那就是珍岛南岸外迷雾笼罩的一片水域。那里距离珍岛南岸11英里（约17公里），潜水小组在日以继夜地工作着，急切地在对沉船进行搜索。这艘船底朝上地沉没在了深度逾100英尺（约33米）的黑暗水域。
It is slow, hard, dangerous work, yet the dive teams have been moving as quickly as possible to find and recover the bodies — to help provide relatives with closure but also to outpace decomposition, which has already begun to make identification difficult.
这是一项进展缓慢、艰难而危险的工作，然而潜水小队一直在尽快行动，以寻找和打捞尸体——这不仅是为了帮助亲属获得解脱，也是为了抢在尸体腐烂前找到它们，尸体的腐烂已逐渐导致辨认工作变得艰难起来。
They have descended in pairs, and in shifts often lasting about 30 minutes, progressively making their way through the waters that have filled the ship’s corridors and cabins.
潜水员成对入水，往往在坚持约30分钟后倒班，他们循序渐进地在灌满了水的沉船走廊和船舱里摸索前进。
The teams have had to contend with high turbidity that, at the depth of the wreck, has limited the divers’ visibility to four to eight inches, according to a diver with a national rescue squad. They have found their way through the vessel largely by touch.
据国家救援队的一名潜水员说，潜水小队必须奋力对抗高度浑浊的水下环境，在沉船所处的深度，这种环境把潜水员的视力范围限制在了四到八英寸（10到20厘米）。他们在沉船中寻找路径时，主要是靠触摸。
As they find bodies, they tie ropes to them and send them to the surface.
他们找到遗体后，会用绳子系上，再送上水面。
No one still on the ship has been found alive.
他们还没在船上找到任何活着的人。
As of early Thursday, the death toll had reached 159, with most of the victims pulled by the divers from the wreck. Officials said 143 people were still missing and presumed dead. Most of them were students on a class trip.
到周四清晨，死亡人数已达到159人，大多数遇难者是被潜水员从沉船中拉出来的。官员们表示，依然有143人下落不明，据推测这些人都已死亡。其中大部分人是参加班级旅行的学生。
More than a week after the ferry’s sinking, the exact cause remained unclear, but the ship began to tilt after making a sharp turn.
渡轮沉没已超过一周，人们依然不清楚事故起因，不过，渡轮是在突然剧烈转向后开始倾斜的。
In recent days, the routine of identifying the dead has unfolded with numbing regularity. Bodies arrive aboard boats, new descriptions are added in black marker to the white boards, and the death toll grows. Each entry has a stark simplicity.
近些天，例行的遗体辨认工作已经展开，一个接着一个，令人感到麻木。尸体经由船只运到后，当局会用黑色记号笔把新信息添加到白板上，死亡人数随之增加。每条描述都充满残酷的简洁感。
No. 63: “160 cm; black slightly wavy straight hair 15 cm; left hand Buddhist beads (white; flower decoration in the shape of ring on each unit); pearl piercing inside right ear; gold tooth, one each on the right and the left side on the top set of teeth.”
63号：“身高160厘米；留15厘米长、轻微卷曲的直发；左手戴佛珠（白色；每颗珠子都装饰有环形花朵图案）；右耳带珍珠耳钉；上排前齿左右两边各有一颗金牙。”
No. 118: “160 cm; chubby build, black horn-rimmed glasses, face round and rather chubby, long straight hair.”
118号：“身高160厘米；身材较胖，戴一副黑色角质眼镜，圆脸且脸部较胖，留长直发。”
Ms. Eom has given up any hope that Yae-ji is still alive.
严芝英已对女儿雅枝的生还不抱任何希望。
Another student who escaped the sinking ship saw Yae-ji inside a room on the vessel’s fourth deck with other students. Announcements from the crew had said people should remain where they were, and so they stayed, even as the room filled up with seawater. Ms. Eom has been told that the room is now buried in the silt of the seabed.
另一名逃出沉船的学生看见朴雅枝待在第四层甲板上的一间舱室里，和其他学生在一起。船员们在通知里告诫乘客待在原地，所以，即使船舱里灌入了越来越多海水，他们依然守在原地。严芝英被告知，那间舱室现已被海底淤泥掩埋。
“Like any other mother, I at least want to take her home,” Ms. Eom said. “I just want to take my baby out of there.”
严芝英说，“和任何一位母亲一样，我至少想把她带回家。我只想让自己的宝贝离开那里。”
In the first few days after the ferry sank, many passengers’ relatives held out hope that their family members were alive, and they pressed the government to redouble its efforts to search for passengers who might have somehow found an air pocket in the sunken ship and survived.
渡轮沉没后的最初几天，许多乘客的亲属还对家人依然生还抱有希望，他们给政府施压，要后者加大救援力度，搜寻乘客。也许，乘客们设法在沉船上找到一个气囊带，从而幸存下来。
Increasingly, however, most have started to acknowledge that the possibility of survivors has likely vanished, and many are preparing for the possibility that the government will soon begin the salvage phase, which could take weeks if not months.
然而，大多数人日益开始承认，发现幸存者的可能性很可能已不复存在，许多人都在为政府可能会迅速进入打捞阶段做准备，这个过程即使无需数月，可能也得要数周。
The decision to move from search to salvage, by law, rests with the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, the authorities said, though it may unofficially fall to President Park Geun-hye. Government officials have insisted that they will not move forward without consensus among the passengers’ relatives.
当局表示，按照法律规定，将由海洋渔业部负责做出从搜索转向打捞的决定，不过，私底下，一锤定音的任务也许会落到总统朴槿惠头上。政府官员坚称，在乘客家属未达成一致意见以前，他们不会推进打捞行动。
Ms. Eom said that she did not oppose the shift to a salvage operation in the next few days. She was worried about the dangers the divers were facing, yet she could not let go of the hope that her daughter’s body would be recovered before salvage operations began.
严芝英表示，她不反对当局在未来几日里把搜寻行动转为打捞行动。她对潜水员面临的危险感到担忧，不过，她无法放弃在打捞行动开始前，女儿的尸体被送上来的希望。
“So, I hope they can bear with us,” she said of officials.
“所以，我希望，他们能对我们耐心一点，”她提到官员时说道。