SEOUL, South Korea — The 92-year-old widow of Kim Dae-jung, the South Korean president who championed political reconciliation with North Korea, arrived in Pyongyang, the North’s capital, on Wednesday amid cautious hopes that her trip might help thaw relations between the two countries.
韩国首尔——力主韩朝政治和解的韩国前总统金大中(Kim Dae-jung)92岁的遗孀，周三抵达朝鲜首都平壤，与之相随的是两国关系解冻的谨慎希望。
Lee Hee-ho, the former first lady, was not carrying any official proposal on behalf of the South Korean government, and her delegation did not include a current government official from Seoul. The publicized itinerary of her four-day trip included visits to a children’s hospital, orphanage and maternity clinic but no formal meetings with senior North Korean officials.
韩国前第一夫人李姬镐(Lee Hee-ho)此行没有携带任何代表韩国政府的官方提议，她的随行人员也不包括来自首尔现任政府的官员。对外公布的四天行程包括参观一家儿童医院、一家孤儿院和一个产科诊所，没有与朝鲜高层官员的正式会晤。
But given her status, analysts monitoring her trip wondered whether the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, would meet her or even send a message to the South through her. Initially, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency reported only her arrival in Pyongyang.
不过，考虑到她的地位，追踪这次访问信息的分析人士猜测，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)有可能会接见她，甚至通过她给韩国带去讯息。最初，朝鲜官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)只报道了她抵达平壤的消息。
Ms. Lee’s delegation took a chartered plane that made a rare trip across the border of the two Koreas, along the Korean Peninsula’s western coast.
李姬镐一行的代表团乘坐的包机沿着朝鲜半岛西海岸穿越了两国边境。这一旅程在两国之间非常少见。
During his presidency, Kim Dae-jung, a respected figure among liberal South Koreans who generally supported engagement with the North, flew to Pyongyang in 2000 and hugged the current leader’s father, Kim Jong-il, in the first inter-Korean summit meeting. He was awarded that year’s Nobel Peace Prize for bringing a rapprochement to the divided peninsula.
金大中在其任期内备受韩国自由派人士尊重，他支持韩国与朝鲜进行接触，曾在2000年飞往平壤参加首次朝韩首脑峰会，并与现任领导人金正恩的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)相互拥抱。因为给分裂的朝鲜半岛带来和解，金大中在那一年被授予了诺贝尔和平奖。
His “Sunshine Policy,” which included generous aid shipments for the North and a flurry of inter-Korean projects, like tearful reunions of families separated by the 1950-53 Korean War, continued through the administration of his liberal successor, Roh Moo-hyun. Mr. Roh met Kim Jong-il for a second summit meeting in 2007.
他的“阳光政策”包括给予朝鲜慷慨的援助物资，启动了一系列南北合作项目，比如让1950年至1953年的朝鲜战争之后分隔两国的家庭挥泪重聚。这一政策在金大中的自由派继任者卢武铉(Roh Moo-hyun)任内得到延续。2007年卢武铉在第二次朝韩峰会中，与金正日进行了会晤。
The policy crumbled when South Koreans voted for conservative leadership that began with the inauguration of President Lee Myung-bak in 2008 and has continued under the incumbent president, Park Geun-hye. Both Mr. Lee and Ms. Park criticized the “Sunshine Policy” as coddling the North and allowing its nuclear weapons program to proceed.
2008年，韩国民众转而支持保守派领导人，李明博(Lee Myung-bak)当选韩国总统，“阳光政策”由此被打破，现任总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)任期内依然维持这一局面。李明博和朴槿惠都指责“阳光政策”过于纵容朝鲜，导致其核武器项目得以发展。
North Korea retreated into belligerent isolation, cutting off humanitarian exchanges with the South and conducting nuclear and long-range missile tests, as well as shelling a South Korean island in 2010. Efforts to improve relations since then have made little progress, as the mutual mistrust has remained deep.
朝鲜又退回到好战又与外界隔绝的状态，切断了与韩国的人道主义交流，开始进行核武器和远程导弹试验，还曾在2010年炮击韩国的一个岛屿。改善两国关系的各种努力至今收效甚微，因为双方互不信任的情绪依然深重。