SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea launched four short-range missiles off its eastern coast on Thursday in what appeared to be a show of force while South Korea and the United States were conducting their annual joint military exercises, officials here said.
韩国首尔——首尔官员称，朝鲜周四在东海岸发射了四枚短程导弹，朝鲜此举似乎是为了在韩国和美国进行年度联合军演之时展示自己的实力。
The missiles blasted off from a base in the Gitdaeryeong area around 5:40 p.m. Thursday and flew more than 120 miles to the northeast before landing in the waters between the Korean Peninsula and Japan, said a spokesman for the Defense Ministry in Seoul.
首尔国防部的一名发言人说，周四下午5:40左右，这些导弹从旗杆岭地区的一个基地发射升空，向东北方向飞行了超过120英里（约合193公里），最后在朝鲜半岛和日本之间的水域坠落。
“We remain vigilant for the possibility of more provocations from the North,” the spokesman said. He spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing ministry policy.
“我们依然警惕朝鲜发起更多挑衅的可能性，”该发言人说。根据部门政策，他要求匿名。
Also Thursday, a South Korean Baptist missionary held in North Korea appeared at a government-arranged news conference in Pyongyang, the capital, saying he had plotted to build underground churches in the isolated country to undermine its government.
同样在周四，一个被朝鲜拘押的韩国浸礼会传教士出现在了平壤的一次政府组织的新闻发布会上。他在会上表示,自己曾谋划在这个孤立的国家建立地下教会，意图损害政府。
The missionary, Kim Jong-uk, 50, called himself a criminal and apologized for the “antistate crime” he said he had committed against the North while working at the behest of the South’s National Intelligence Service.
50岁的传教士金正旭（Kim Jong-uk，音译）自称罪犯，说自己在为韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)工作时对朝鲜犯了罪，并为这种“反国家罪”道了歉。
North Korea announced in November that it had arrested a South Korean spy, but until Thursday it had rejected the South Korean government’s request to identify him. It was unclear whether Mr. Kim was speaking of his own volition during the news conference, to which reporters from The Associated Press and other foreign journalists were invited.
朝鲜于去年11月宣布逮捕了一名韩国间谍，但是直到周四，它仍然拒绝按照韩国政府的请求确认此人身份。目前尚不清楚，金正旭在新闻发布会上的发言是否出于自愿，美联社和其他一些外国记者应邀出席了此次新闻发布会。
South Korea called for the immediate release of Mr. Kim and demanded that he have access to a lawyer, saying that the detention of a religious missionary on charges of committing a crime against the state was “difficult to understand.”
韩国要求立即释放金正旭，还要求朝鲜允许他聘请律师，并且表示，以反国家罪的罪名逮捕宗教传教士的做法“令人难以理解”。
During a news briefing, Kim Eui-do, a government spokesman in Seoul, did not comment on Mr. Kim’s assertions that he had worked with South Korean intelligence, or on other details of his remarks. The South Korean intelligence agency had earlier denied that a missionary was being held in the North while working as its spy.
首尔的政府发言人金义韬（Kim Eui-do，音译）没有在新闻发布会上评论金正旭曾与韩国情报部门合作的说法，也没有评论此人发言的其他细节。早些时候，韩国情报机构曾否认有一名传教士在为其从事间谍活动时被朝鲜扣留。
The missile tests came two days after a North Korean patrol boat repeatedly ventured across a disputed western sea border with South Korea, prompting the South Korean Navy to issue warning broadcasts. The North Korean ship returned to its waters without setting off a clash.
前述导弹测试两天前，朝鲜的一艘巡逻船多次穿越该国西部与韩国接壤的一片有争议海域，迫使韩国海军(South Korean Navy)发出警告。朝鲜那艘船后来回到了自己国家的水域，没有引发冲突。
Naval incursions and short-range missile tests by the North are not unusual. North Korea fired several short-range projectiles into waters off its eastern coast in May. It also launched a satellite into orbit via rocket in December 2012 that South Korea and the United States said they believed was part of the North’s efforts to build an intercontinental ballistic missile that could deliver a nuclear warhead at a target as far away as North America.
朝鲜的海上侵入和短程导弹试射并不罕见。去年5月，朝鲜向本国东海岸附近水域发射了几枚短程射弹。2012年12月，朝鲜还用火箭将一颗卫星送入了轨道。韩国和美国认为这是朝鲜洲际弹道导弹研发计划的一部分。洲际弹道导弹能携带核弹头打击远达北美的目标。
At the news conference, the missionary, Mr. Kim, said he had entered the North with Bibles and other religious materials and movies on Oct. 7 and was arrested the following day. Before that, he said, he was running an underground church in the Chinese city of Dandong, near northwestern North Korea, to collect data from North Korean refugees that he would hand over to the South Korean intelligence agency. He received several thousand dollars from the agency, he said.
在新闻发布会上，金正旭称自己去年10月7日带着《圣经》等宗教宣传材料及影片进入朝鲜，并在第二天被捕。他说，在那之前，自己在接近朝鲜西北部的中国城市丹东主持着一个地下教会，目的是从朝鲜难民那里收集信息，并将信息转交给韩国国家情报院。他还说，他从该情报院获得了几千美元。
“I intended to change North Korea into a religious country and demolish the current North Korean government and political system,” he said, asking for the North’s leniency and his release. “I received cash from the National Intelligence Service and helped arrange North Koreans to spy for it.”
“我企图把朝鲜变成一个宗教国家，推翻朝鲜当前的政府和政治制度，”他表示，并且请求朝鲜方面宽大为怀，释放自己，“我收了国家情报院的钱，帮忙安排朝鲜人为国家情报院当间谍。”
During the news conference, the North released video footage of North Koreans said to be confessing to their contacts with Mr. Kim.
在新闻发布会上，朝鲜播放了关于一些朝鲜人的视频。据说，那些朝鲜人正在坦白自己与金正旭之间的往来。
The North Korean government has used such news conferences in Pyongyang or interviews with Choson Sinbo, a pro-North Korean newspaper in Japan, to let Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary held in the North since late 2012, speak to the outside world. Mr. Bae has also apologized for what he called his anti-North Korean crime, for which he was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor last year, and has appealed for Washington’s intervention to win his release.
此前，朝鲜政府曾通过在平壤举办这种新闻发布会，以及日本亲朝报纸《朝鲜新报》(Choson Sinbo)的采访报道，让从2012年底便被关在朝鲜的韩裔美国传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)对外界发言。肯尼斯·裴也为自己所谓的反朝鲜罪进行了道歉，并请求美国出面争取自己获释。去年，他因反朝鲜罪被判15年劳役。