SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea announced on Wednesday that a rural southern county would be the site of an advanced American missile defense battery, the planned deployment of which has angered China and North Korea — and, now, thousands of local residents, who demonstrated against the plan.
韩国首尔——韩国于周三宣布，将把一种先进的美国导弹防御系统部署在南方的一个农业郡，引发了当地数千居民的抗议。部署该系统的计划此前已经惹怒了中国和朝鲜。
Villagers rallied under a sweltering sun to condemn the choice of their county, Seongju, which is about 135 miles southeast of Seoul, the capital, for the so-called Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense system, known as Thaad. South Korea and the United States say the powerful missile and radar system is needed to defend the country, and American forces stationed here, against North Korean missiles, but residents fear it will threaten their health and ruin their agricultural economy.
星州郡位于韩国首都首尔东南方135英里处，那里的居民顶着炎炎烈日聚到一起，谴责政府把所谓的末段高空区域防御系统（Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense，简称“萨德”）的部署地点选在自己的家门口。韩国和美国称，为了保卫韩国以及驻韩美军的安全，必须部署这一强大的导弹和雷达系统，但居民们担心它会危及他们的健康，并毁掉当地的农业经济。
“We oppose Thaad with our lives!” the residents chanted, holding banners that bore the same slogan. Local political leaders, wearing red headbands, wrote the same vow in blood after cutting their fingers, a dramatic form of protest that has a long history in South Korea. Some of the politicians and protest leaders also began a hunger strike.
“我们以命相搏反对部署‘萨德’！”居民们高呼道，手里举着带有同样口号的条幅。头勒红色头带的当地政治领袖割破手指，以鲜血写下了同样的誓言——在韩国，这种戏剧化的抗议形式有很长的历史。一些政治人物和抗议活动的领导者还开始了绝食抗议。
“If we lose our precious land to Thaad, we will be ashamed before our ancestors and posterity,” Kim Hang-gon, who oversees the Seongju county government, told the crowd, many of them aging melon farmers, according to the news agency Yonhap. The county, which has a population of about 50,000, provides 60 percent of all melons sold in South Korea.
“如果让宝贵的土地被萨德占据，我们有何面目面对祖宗和后人，”据韩联社(Yonhap)报道，星州郡郡长金恒坤（Kim Hang-gon，音）对着抗议的人群说道。人群中许多人是上了年纪的瓜农。在韩国销售的瓜有60%产自这个人口约5万的郡。
The opposition could bode ill for the American and South Korean militaries, which hope to install the Thaad battery by late 2017. In the past, villagers have joined forces with environmental and political activists to initiate prolonged and often violent campaigns against new United States military bases.
美国和韩国希望在2017年末完成萨德的部署事宜，但当前的抗议活动可能是一个不好的兆头。过去，居民们曾与环保及政治活动人士联手发起持久的抗议活动，反对新建美军基地，其间时有暴力事件发生。
Most South Koreans support the country’s military alliance with the United States, citing the need to deter the North. But many also fear that any expansion of the American military presence could worsen tensions with the North and with China, and in some cases could damage local ways of life.
大多数韩国人都支持韩国与美国结成军事联盟，理由是需要给朝鲜以震慑。但很多人担心，驻韩美军军力的任何增强，都可能让韩国与朝鲜以及中国之间的紧张关系出现恶化，在某种情况下还有可能破坏当地的生活方式。
After South Korea and the United States announced the agreement to deploy Thaad on Friday, local news reports mentioned Seongju and several other towns as possible sites. Protests against Thaad have since been held in those communities. Some demonstrators expressed concern that hosting the system could make their towns high-priority targets for North Korea in the event of war.
韩国和美国于上周五宣布达成部署“萨德”的协议后，当地媒体报道称，备选部署地点包括星州郡和其它几个城镇。此后，针对萨德的抗议活动在这些地方不断爆发。一些抗议者担心，自己所在的城镇如果部署了“萨德”，一旦战事爆发，就有可能成为朝鲜的首选打击目标。
South Korea’s Defense Ministry said on Wednesday that the Thaad battery would be installed at an existing South Korean Air Force radar and missile base on a mountain in Seongju. The South Korean unit will be moved elsewhere, it said.
韩国的国防部周三表示，“萨德”系统将部署在星州郡一座山上的空军雷达和导弹基地，并称韩军单位将转往别处。
The deployment in Seongju will allow the Thaad system’s interceptor missiles to protect from half to two-thirds of the country from North Korean missiles, the ministry said. It said the radar system would be positioned in such a way that its powerful signals would pose no threat to human health, an assurance that villagers in Seongju did not accept.
韩国国防部称，部署在星州郡使萨德系统的拦截导弹能够覆盖韩国一半到三分之二的国土，使其免受朝鲜导弹的袭击。国防部还表示，雷达系统将采取特定的安置方式，这样其强烈的信号便不会对人体健康构成威胁。但星州郡的村民并不接受这个保证。
South Koreans are divided over the Thaad system, whose deployment has been sought for years by the United States but angrily opposed by China, South Korea’s top trade partner. China asserts that it, not the North, is the system’s true target, and Russia has joined Beijing in contending that its deployment would compromise their security and worsen tensions in the region, making it even more difficult to persuade North Korea to end its pursuit of nuclear weapons.
韩国民众在萨德系统上存在分歧。美国多年来一直试图部署该系统，但遭到了韩国最大的贸易伙伴中国的愤怒反对。中国称该系统真正的目标不是朝鲜，而是自己。俄罗斯也加入了中国的阵营，称部署该系统会危害它们的安全，并导致该地区的紧张局势恶化，使得说服朝鲜放弃发展核武器的难度加大。
On Monday, President Park Geun-hye said that the deployment “neither targets third countries nor undermines their security interests.” But critics of the government, including many opposition lawmakers, worry that China will engage in economic retaliation against South Korea and cooperate less on reining in the North’s nuclear ambitions.
周一当天，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)表示，部署萨德系统“既不是将第三方国家作为攻击目标，也不会损害它们的安全利益”。但包括很多反对党议员在内的政府批评人士担心，中国会对韩国进行经济报复，并在限制朝鲜的核野心上减少合作。
“It will do more harm than good to our national interest,” a prominent opposition leader, Moon Jae-in, said in a statement on Wednesday. He also called on the government to submit the deployment for parliamentary approval.
“它对我们的国家利益弊大于利，”著名的反对派领袖文在寅(Moon Jae-in)在周三的一份声明中说。他还要求政府将部署计划提交给议会，取得议会的批准。
Under its deal with Washington, South Korea will provide land and build the base for the Thaad battery, but the United States will pay for the missile system, to be built by Lockheed Martin, as well as its operational costs.
根据与华盛顿签订的协议，韩国将提供土地，并为萨德系统修建基地，但购买该导弹系统的费用和它的运行成本将由美国承担。该系统将由洛克希德·马丁公司(Lockheed Martin)建造。
Some critics in South Korea found fault with the government’s choice of Seongju as the Thaad site, noting that Seoul, with its 10 million people, will lie outside the coverage of its intercept missiles, which have a range of just under 125 miles. The Defense Ministry said it would operate low-altitude Patriot missile defense systems together with Thaad to help defend the capital.
韩国的一些批评人士不满于政府选择将萨德系统部署在星州郡，称有着1000万人口的首尔将位于其拦截导弹的覆盖范围外。萨德系统的拦截导弹射程不到125英里。国防部表示低空爱国者导弹防御系统会和萨德一同使用，以帮助保卫首都。