SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s most wanted man, a church leader and businessman whom prosecutors had hoped to arrest in connection with an April ferry disaster that killed more than 300 people, has been found dead, the police said on Tuesday.
韩国首尔——韩国警方本周二表示，该国头号通缉犯已经身亡。此人是一名教会领袖兼商人，鉴于他和今年4月导致300多人丧生的渡轮海难有关，检方一直希望能将其捉拿归案。
The man, Yoo Byung-eun, had been the target of the country’s largest manhunt ever since a court issued an arrest warrant for him in May on charges of embezzlement, breach of trust and tax evasion. Prosecutors sought to arrest him as one of those who had contributed to the sinking of the 6,825-ton ferry Sewol.
这名通缉犯名叫俞炳彦(Yoo Byung-eun)。今年5月，法院签发逮捕令，指控他挪用公款、违反信托及逃税。之后，他就成了韩国史上规模最大的搜捕行动的目标。作为导致6825吨重的“世越号”（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）渡轮沉没的肇事者之一，韩国检方一直试图抓捕他。
They said they had determined that Mr. Yoo, 73, was a real owner and top manager of Chonghaejin Marine Company, the operator of the ferry. Mr. Yoo and members of his family strained the company’s finances by taking large sums, forcing it to spend little on the safety training for the ferry’s crew, the prosecutors said.
警方表示，已经断定，73岁的俞炳彦是事故渡轮的经营方清海镇海运公司(Chonghaejin Marine Company)真正的所有人和最高管理者。检方则表示，俞炳彦及其家人抽走了公司的大部分资金，致使公司财务紧张，几乎拿不出钱来给船员提供安全培训。
“National forensic officials told us that a DNA test showed that it was him,” said Woo Hyong-ho, chief of the police in Suncheon, a city near the southern coast of South Korea.
“国家法证部门的官员告诉我们，DNA检测结果显示，死者就是俞炳彦，”韩国南部海滨顺天市的警察署署长禹贤镐（Woo Hyung-ho，音译）说。
Mr. Woo said his investigators took a fingerprint from the body, which was badly decomposed, and determined that it was Mr. Yoo’s.
禹贤镐还称，手下的调查人员从高度腐烂的尸体上提取了一个指纹，由此断定死者是俞炳彦。
“So far, we haven’t found any sign that he was murdered,” the police chief said, adding that officials were investigating the cause.
“到目前为止，我们还没有发现任何迹象表明死者被谋杀，”禹贤镐表示。他还称，警方正在调查其死因。
The body was found on June 12 by a farmer in an apricot orchard in Suncheon, but it could not immediately be identified. Unable at first to get a fingerprint from the body, the authorities sent away a bone sample for a DNA test.
6月12日，一名务农者在顺天的一座杏园里发现了这具尸体，不过警方未能立即辨明其身份。一开始，当局无法从遗体上提取指纹，于是就把一份骨样送去做DNA检测试。
The test result came in late Monday after forensic experts compared the DNA sample with that of one of Mr. Yoo’s brothers, who was under arrest on charges of embezzlement. The experts concluded that the body was that of Yoo Byung-eun. The police in Suncheon scrutinized the body again on Tuesday, and this time they were able to collect a print from one of the fingers.
法医学专家把从死者身上提取的DNA样本，和因涉嫌挪用公款被捕的俞炳彦的一名兄弟的样本做了比对，从而在周一晚间得到检测结果。专家们认定，死者就是俞炳彦。顺天警方在周二晚间再次进行了仔细的尸检，这一次，他们成功地从一个手指上提取了指纹。
“Our initial handling of the case was less than appropriate,” said Mr. Woo, acknowledging that his officers had not imagined that the body might be Mr. Yoo’s when it was found.
“我们最初对本案的处理不够妥当，”禹贤镐说。他承认，当尸体被发现时，手下的警察没有想到那可能是俞炳彦。
Photographs of Mr. Yoo had been posted at train and bus stations across the country. Until now, prosecutors and the police said they still believed that he was at large, aided by loyal members of the Salvationists, a Christian sect that he helped found in the 1960s. Prosecutors have indicted 13 Salvationists on charges of helping Mr. Yoo elude arrest.
全国各地的火车站和汽车站都张贴着俞炳彦的照片。检方和警方表示，在此之前，他们始终认为，在忠心耿耿的“救援派”(Salvationist)教徒的协助下，俞炳彦一直在逃。该教派属于基督教范畴，由俞炳彦于上世纪60年代协助创立。已有13名救援派教徒以协助俞炳彦潜逃的罪名而受到检方的正式指控。
Nearly 10,000 police officers were mobilized when prosecutors raided a church commune south of Seoul on June 11 in search of him.
检方在6月11日调集了近1万名警察，突击搜查了首尔南部的一片教区。
The authorities were also looking for his son Yoo Dae-kyoon, who was believed to be in South Korea, and they asked the Justice Department in the United States for help in apprehending another son, Keith H. Yoo, who they said owned property and lived there.
当局还在寻找俞炳彦的儿子俞大均（Yoo Dae-kyoon，音译)，据信他仍在韩国。当局也已向美国司法部求助搜捕他的另一个儿子俞赫基（Keith H. Yoo，音译)。据称，此人在美国拥有资产，并在那里生活。
One of Mr. Yoo’s daughters, Yoo Some-na, was caught at her Paris apartment in May. South Korea wanted Mr. Yoo’s children abroad to be extradited here to face charges of embezzling millions of dollars from companies controlled by the family.
今年5月，警方在巴黎的公寓中逮捕了俞炳彦的一个女儿俞珊娜（Yoo Some-na，音译）。韩国当局希望把俞炳彦在海外的子女引渡回国，以便面对从家族控制的公司挪用数百万美元的指控。
The ferry capsized off southwestern South Korea on April 16 after making a sharp turn. So far, 294 people have been found dead, with 10 missing and believed dead. The disaster was South Korea’s worst in recent decades and traumatized the nation. Most of the victims were high school students on a holiday trip to the southern island of Jeju. The ship’s crew repeatedly told passengers to stay inside the ship even as it was slowly sinking, according to investigators and survivors.
今年4月16日，“世越号”渡轮急转弯后倾覆在韩国西南部海域。截至目前，找到了294人的遗体，还有10人下落不明，据信已经罹难。这是韩国近几十年里最惨重的事故，对举国上下造成了重创。大多数遇难者是到南部济州岛度假的高中生。调查人员和幸存者声称，就在船身慢慢沉没的同时，船员仍一再要求乘客待在船内。
Investigators said the ship was carrying twice as much cargo as it was allowed, with not enough ballast water at its bottom to keep the ship stable. They accused the ferry company’s management of colluding with dock workers and shipping regulators so it could routinely overload the ship to generate profits.
调查人员表示，这艘渡轮的载货量是其法定限量的两倍，但船底没有足够的压舱水来保持船身的稳定。他们指责船运公司的管理层和码头工人及航运监管机构相勾结，这样一来，就能日复一日地通过超载来盈利。
So far, 63 crew members, ferry company officials, government regulators and others have been arrested on murder, negligence and other various criminal charges.
截至目前，已有63人因涉嫌谋杀、玩忽职守和其他多项刑事罪名被当局逮捕，其中包括船员、航运公司管理人员，以及政府监管者等。