Uganda has agreed to cut all military and police ties with North Korea, depriving the North of a crucial base for arms and other exports in Africa, the office of President Park Geun-hye of South Korea said on Monday.
韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的办公室周一表示，乌干达已同意切断与朝鲜的所有军警联系，朝鲜在非洲将失去一个武器和其他物资出口的重要基地。
President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda made that promise in a summit meeting with Ms. Park on Sunday during her visit to Africa, her office said.
朴槿惠的办公室说，在她出访非洲期间，乌干达总统韦里·穆塞韦尼(Yoweri Museveni)上周日与她举行了首脑会谈，向她做出了这个承诺。
In the meeting, her office said, Mr. Museveni agreed to comply with United Nations sanctions aimed at limiting North Korea’s capacity to earn foreign cash for its banned nuclear and missile program.
她的办公室说，穆塞韦尼在会议上同意遵行联合国的制裁措施。这些措施旨在打击朝鲜的创汇能力，遏制朝鲜的核计划和导弹计划。
“We are disengaging the cooperation we are having with North Korea, as a result of U.N. sanctions,” Sam Kutesa, Uganda’s foreign minister, told the Ugandan broadcaster NBS Television.
“我们正在取消与朝鲜的合作，这是联合国制裁的结果，”乌干达外长萨姆·库泰萨(Sam Kutesa)对乌干达广播电视台NBS Television表示。
Col. Shaban Bantariza, a spokesman for the Ugandan government, said his country was simply “disengaging from military cooperation” and not cutting diplomatic ties with the North Koreans, The Associated Press reported.
据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，乌干达政府发言人沙班·班塔瑞兹(Shaban Bantariza)上校表示，该国仅仅是“取消军事合作”，而不是切断与朝鲜的外交关系。
Instructors from North Korea have been in Uganda for years, training its police in weapons use and other areas, according to South Korean officials and a United Nations sanctions report. Uganda was also believed to be a crucial buyer of rifles and other small arms from North Korea.
韩国官员和联合国的一份制裁报告称，多年来，朝鲜教官在乌干达为该国培训警察，项目包括武器使用等等。据信乌干达也是步枪等小型朝鲜武器的重要买家。
Under economic pressure from international sanctions, North Korea has relied on the exports of weapons and the deployment of military instructors abroad as a source of foreign currency.
迫于国际制裁的经济压力，朝鲜一直把武器出口和军事教官输出作为一种外币收入来源。
The United Nations vowed to crack down on these income sources in its latest sanctions imposed after the North’s nuclear test in January.
朝鲜今年1月进行核试验后，联合国决心要打击朝鲜的这些收入来源，推出了最新的制裁措施。
North Korean officials have been visiting Uganda since the days of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un’s grandfather Kim Il-sung, who cultivated ties with African countries when he was president.
从朝鲜领导人金正恩的祖父金日成那一代起，就有朝鲜官员访问乌干达。金日成当总统时，培养了朝鲜与非洲国家的关系。
Mr. Museveni, in power since 1986, visited North Korea in 1987, 1990 and 1992 and met with Kim Il-sung. When he visited South Korea in 2013, he surprised officials by greeting them in Korean; he said he had learned it from Kim Il-sung, the South Korean news agency Yonhap reported.
穆塞韦尼自1986年上台以来，先后在1987、1990和1992年访问过朝鲜，见过金日成。2013年访问韩国时，他说了几句韩语，令韩国官员惊讶；据韩国联合通讯社的报道，他自称是从金日成那里学的韩语。
In 2014, he received a North Korean delegation led by Kim Yong-nam, the No. 2 man in the North’s hierarchy. But that year, his government declined to receive an International Kim Il-sung Award that the North offered to Mr. Museveni, Yonhap reported.
2014年，他接见了朝鲜第二号人物金永南(Kim Yong-nam)率领的朝鲜代表团。但是据韩联社报道，就在这一年，朝鲜向穆塞韦尼颁发“国际金日成奖”(International Kim Il-sung Award)被他的政府拒绝。
Mr. Museveni has been looking to develop economic opportunities with countries like China and South Korea.
穆塞韦尼一直在寻求与中国和韩国等国发展经济机会。
The Park-Museveni agreement, if put into effect, would be a coup for Ms. Park. The South Korean leader supports aggressive enforcement of United Nations sanctions against North Korea. During her current three-nation tour in Africa, she has tried to rally support for the sanctions, offering aid packages as incentives.
朴槿惠-穆塞韦尼协议如果付诸实施，将会成为朴槿惠的一大胜利。她支持联合国对朝鲜的大力制裁。此次在非洲要访问三个国家期间，她试图争取他们对制裁的支持，并向他们提供一揽子援助计划作为奖励。
During her visit, Uganda and South Korea signed 10 cooperation agreements in areas like defense, health, rural development and communications technology, both governments said.
在她访问非洲期间，乌干达和韩国政府表示，两国在国防、卫生、农村发展和通信技术领域签署了10项合作协议。
On Monday, Ms. Park and Mr. Museveni introduced a “Korea Aid” program in Mpigi, a town in central Uganda, where a South Korean medical crew started treating local people. The program will run ambulances to provide mobile health care and nutritional support.
周一，朴槿惠和穆塞韦尼在乌干达中部小镇姆皮吉推出了“韩国援助”计划，韩国医疗队开始在那里为当地人治疗疾病。根据该计划，一些救护车将在该国提供移动医疗保健和营养保障服务。
South Korea has exported $350,000 worth of helmets, bulletproof jackets and grenades to Uganda in the last three years, according to South Korean government data.
韩国政府统计的数据显示，在过去三年里，韩国向乌干达出口了价值35万美元的头盔、防弹衣和手榴弹。
For decades, South Korea and North Korea have competed to undercut each other’s influence in Africa. The visit by Ms. Park was the first state trip to Uganda by a South Korean president since the two nations established diplomatic relations in 1963.
几十年来，韩国和朝鲜一直在争相削弱对方在非洲的影响力。朴槿惠此次访问乌干达，是自1963年两国建立外交关系以来，韩国总统首次对乌干达进行国事访问。