SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea on Monday proposed holding military and humanitarian talks with North Korea, aimed at easing tensions along their heavily armed border and arranging reunions of families divided decades ago by the Korean War.
韩国首尔——周一，韩国提议与朝鲜进行军事和人道主义会谈，目的是为了缓解韩朝之间重兵防守的边境线的紧张局势，安排让数十年前因朝鲜战争分离的家庭团聚。
North Korea did not immediately respond. Its reaction will be the first test of the pro-dialogue policy of South Korea’s liberal new president, Moon Jae-in, who argues that talks are the likeliest way to end the crisis over Pyongyang’s nuclear weapons program.
朝鲜没有立即对提议做出回应。朝鲜如何反应将是对韩国的自由派新总统文在寅主张对话政策的首次检验，文在寅认为，谈判是结束有关平壤核武器计划危机的最有效的方式。
The South wants to send a military delegation to the border village of Panmunjom on Friday to discuss “stopping all hostile activities that raise military tension” along the border, Vice Defense Minister Suh Choo-suk said Monday.
韩国国防部副部长徐柱锡周一表示，韩国想在周五派一个军事代表团前往边境线上的小村板门店，讨论“停止一切让（边境地区）军事紧张气氛升级的敌对活动”的问题。
Such a meeting would be the first between the two governments since 2015 and the first inter-Korean military dialogue since 2014.
如果能进行会谈的话，这将是自2015年以来两国政府之间的首次对话，也是2014年以来朝鲜半岛岛内的首次军事对话。
The North Korean leader, Kim Jong Un, had proposed such talks in a May 2016 speech. But the South’s then-president, Park Geun-hye, a conservative who has since been impeached and removed from office, rejected the offer, calling it insincere and demanding that the North first move toward dismantling its nuclear weapons program.
朝鲜领导人金正恩曾在2016年5月的一次讲话中提议进行这种会谈。不过，时任韩国总统朴瑾惠拒绝了这个建议，称之为没有诚意，她还要求朝鲜首先取消自己的核武器计划。后来，这位保守派的总统遭弹劾、被迫卸任。
Moon reaffirmed his commitment to dialogue in a speech in Berlin this month, days after Pyongyang conducted its first test of an intercontinental ballistic missile.
文在寅本月在柏林的一个讲话中重申了他对对话的承诺，就在他讲话的几天前，平壤进行了首次洲际弹道导弹试验。
Suh, the vice defense minister, on Monday called on the North to restore a military hotline that Pyongyang cut off in 2016, amid tensions following its nuclear test in January of that year. Without the hotline, the two militaries have no means of communicating quickly and directly to avoid an unintended conflict.
国防部副部长徐柱锡周一呼吁朝鲜恢复与韩国的军事热线。2016年1月朝鲜进行核试验，导致紧张气氛升级之后，平壤中断了这条热线。没有这条热线，韩国和朝鲜的军队无法直接地快速沟通，以避免发生意外的冲突。
South Korea did not disclose what specifically it wanted to discuss if military talks were held. In past meetings, North Korea has demanded that the South stop holding joint military exercises with the United States and end the use of loudspeakers to broadcast propaganda along the border. South Korea has recently accused the North of sending military drones to spy on the South, an issue that Seoul would be likely to raise.
韩国没有透露，如果举行军事会谈的话，将具体讨论哪些内容。在以前的会谈中，朝鲜曾要求韩国停止与美国进行的联合军事演习，并结束在边境地区使用扬声器进行广播宣传。韩国最近指责朝鲜派军事无人机对韩国进行侦查，这很可能是首尔方面将会提出的问题。
Also Monday, the South Korean Red Cross Society proposed a meeting at Panmunjom on Aug. 1 with its North Korean counterpart, to arrange reunions of relatives in the North and South who have not seen each other since being separated during the 1950-53 Korean War.
同在周一，韩国红十字会(South Korean Red Cross Society)提出在8月1日与朝鲜红十字会在板门店举行会谈，安排被朝鲜战争分离的家庭团聚，这些分别居住在朝鲜和韩国的亲属们自1950至1953年的朝鲜战争后，一直没见过面。