SEOUL, South Korea — Agents from South Korea’s National Intelligence Service raided the homes and offices of an opposition lawmaker and other members of a far-left opposition party on Wednesday, detaining three of them on charges of plotting to overthrow the government.
韩国首尔——周三，韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)的特工突击搜查了一个极左翼反对派政党的一名议员和其他成员的住宅和办公室，并以密谋推翻政府的指控逮捕了其中三人。
The highly unusual raids and charges of treason touched off a political storm in a country already rocked by accusations of meddling in domestic politics by the country’s powerful intelligence agency. Opposition politicians said the conservative government of President Park Geun-hye was resorting to a witch hunt to divert attention from a scandal involving the agency.
指责势力强大的情报机构干涉国内政治的声音本已震撼韩国，此番极不寻常的突击搜查和针对这些人的叛国指控再度引发了一场政治风暴。反对派政治人物表示，为了转移人们对一场涉及国家情报院的丑闻的关注，朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)领导的保守派政府用上了政治迫害的手法。
A spokesman for the intelligence agency said it worked with state prosecutors in conducting the raid.
情报院发言人称，该机构是在配合国家检查官执行突击搜查。
South Korean media showed intelligence agents hauling away boxes filled with documents from the National Assembly office of Lee Seok-ki, one of the six lawmakers affiliated with the far-left party, the United Progressive Party. Officials of the party vehemently protested the raid, shouting slogans condemning what they called political oppression.
韩国媒体的报道显示，情报人员从李石基(Lee Seok-ki)位于国会(National Assembly)的办公室拖走了一箱箱文件。他是极左翼政党统合进步党(United Progressive Party)的六名议员之一。该政党的官员喊口号谴责他们所谓的政治压迫，强烈抗议此次突击搜查。
“Faced with an unprecedented crisis, the presidential office and the National Intelligence Service are concocting a Communist witch hunt in the 21st century,” Lee Jung-hee, the head of the party, said in a statement. “Just as they attacked opposition supporters as pro-North Korean followers during the last presidential election, they are now strangling democratic forces with treason charges.”
“面对一场前所未有的危机，总统办公室和国家情报院正在制造一场21世纪的捕风捉影反共运动，”统合进步党党首李正姬(Lee Jung-hee)在一份声明中说，“就像在去年大选期间把反对派支持者当成亲朝鲜分子来攻击一样，他们现在正在用叛国的罪名迫害民主力量。”
Ms. Lee was referring to the indictment of Won Sei-hoon, a former head of the spy agency, on charges of ordering a team of intelligence agents to start an online smear campaign last year against government critics, including candidates who ran against Ms. Park in the presidential election in December.
李正姬指的是对前国家情报院院长元世勋(Won Sei-Hoon)的指控，元世勋涉嫌于去年下令一队情报人员在网上开始一场抹黑运动，针对的是政府批评人士，其中包括曾在去年12月的大选中与朴槿惠竞争的一些候选人。
Prosecutors in that case said the agents often derided the candidates and their parties as sympathetic to North Korea. But the prosecutors did not establish whether the smears affected the outcome of the election. The country’s political parties have been squabbling over whether to appoint a special prosecutor for a new investigation.
该案的检察官称，那些特工经常嘲笑那些候选人和他们所在的政党，说他们同情朝鲜。但检方未曾确定那些诽谤是否影响了大选结果。韩国的政党一直在为是否该指派一名特别检察官重新进行调查争论不休。
Those detained for questioning on Wednesday include three leaders of the progressive party, one of them a provincial vice chairman, Hong Soon-soek. Mr. Lee, the lawmaker whose office was searched, was not detained because members of the National Assembly are generally immune from arrest while it is in session.
周三被逮捕问讯的人中包括统合进步党的三名领导人，其中一名是省级副主席洪淳硕（Hong Soon-soek，音译）。办公室遭到搜查的议员李石基没有被捕，因为在国会会议期间，议员通常可以免于逮捕。
“If the charges are true, this is shocking beyond word,” said the president’s chief spokesman, Lee Jung-hyun, whose office denied that the investigation was politically motivated.
“如果指控属实，这会令人震惊到无言以对，”总统的首席发言人李贞铉(Lee Jung-hyun)说。其办公室否认调查是出于政治动机。
Neither prosecutors nor the intelligence service revealed details of the treason charges against the opposition politicians. The national news agency Yonhap, quoting unnamed intelligence officials, reported that they were accused of plotting to sabotage communications, oil facilities and other installations as part of a plot to overthrow the South Korean government, a charge the progressive party called absurd.
检方和情报院均未透露有关这些反对派政界人士叛国指控的细节。全国性新闻机构韩国联合通讯社(Yonhap)引用匿名情报官员的消息报道称，他们被控密谋破坏通讯、石油设施和其他设施，这是其推翻韩国政府的阴谋的一部分。统合进步党称，这一指控十分荒谬。
Like many other members of his party, Mr. Lee, the lawmaker, is a former student activist who was prosecuted under the country’s anti-Communist national security laws. He served a prison sentence for participating in an underground political party that was manipulated by the North Korean government during the 1990s.
和所在政党的许多成员一样，李石基以前是一名学生活动人士，曾被起诉违反了韩国反共国家安全法律。他还曾因为参加一个地下党而入狱，上世纪90年代期间，该政党为朝鲜政府所控制。
Since he and other progressives won seats in the National Assembly in 2012, some conservative South Koreans have attacked them as “jongbuk,” or blind followers of North Korea. The progressive party’s platform calls for “rectifying our nation’s shameful history tainted by imperialist invasions, the national divide, military dictatorship, the tyranny and plunder of transnational monopoly capital and chaebol,” the latter referring to South Korea’s giant family-controlled business conglomerates. The party wants to end the American military presence, dismantle South Korea’s “subordinate alliance with the United States” and unify the North and the South. In a television interview last year, Mr. Lee said that “a problem far bigger than jongbuk” was blindly following the United States, or “jongmi.”
自从他和其他一些进步党人士于2012年赢得国会席位以来，一些保守派韩国人一直攻击他们是“从北派”(jongbuk)，即朝鲜的盲目追随者。进步党的纲领呼吁“矫正我国被帝国主义侵略、国家分裂、军事独裁，以及跨国垄断资本主义者和财阀的专制和掠夺所玷污的屈辱史”。最后一项指的是韩国那些巨型的家族企业集团。该党想要结束美国在韩国的军事存在，解除韩国“与美国的从属联盟关系”，实现南北统一。在去年的一次电视采访中，李石基说，“一个比‘从北’大得多的问题就是‘从美’(jongmi)”，即盲目跟随美国。
Conservatives have often accused progressives here of being too quick to question their country’s alliance with Washington but too reluctant to say a harsh word about North Korea over human rights abuses and the pursuit of nuclear weapons. Before she was elected president, Ms. Park once proposed a parliamentary vote to force Mr. Lee from the legislature, calling his ideology “questionable.”
韩国的保守派经常指责进步党人士，认为他们急于质疑该国与华盛顿的结盟，却极不情愿对朝鲜侵犯人权和发展核武器的行为发表严厉措辞。在当选总统之前，立法机构的朴槿惠称李石基的意识形态“有问题”，并提议国会投票将其驱逐。
Treason charges were sometimes used by South Korea’s former military dictators to arrest dissidents, but after the country was democratized in 1996, the tables were turned: two former presidents, Chun Doo-hwan and Roh Tae-woo, were convicted of mutiny and treason for their roles in a 1979 military coup and 1980 crackdowns on a pro-democracy uprising in the southern city of Kwangju that left hundreds killed.
以前的韩国军事独裁者时或利用叛国指控来逮捕异见人士，但在这个国家于1996年民主化之后，局势已经发生逆转：前总统全斗焕(Chun Doo-hwan)和卢泰愚(Roh Tae-woo)都被判定犯有兵变和叛国罪，原因是他们在1979年的军事政变和1980年镇压民主反抗时所扮演的角色，后一事件发生在南部城市光州，导致数百人死亡。
On Wednesday, the United Progressive party said that the raid was reminiscent of the Yushin, or “revitalization,” era, when Ms. Park’s father, Park Chung-hee, ruled the country with an iron fist. He came to power in a military coup in 1961 and ruled for 18 years; during his tenure, dissidents were tortured and sometimes executed without a proper trial on the same kinds of accusations now leveled at Mr. Lee. The National Intelligence Service, once known as KCIA, was a favorite tool in campaigns to frame the dictators’ political opponents as North Korea sympathizers; successive governments since then have vowed to reform the agency and keep it out of domestic politics.
周三，统合进步党表示，这次突袭让人想起了“维新”时代(Yushin)，即朴槿惠的父亲朴正熙对该国采取铁腕统治的时期。朴正熙在1961年的军事政变中上台，并统治了该国18年，在他治下，异见人士往往在未经正式审讯的情况下饱受折磨，有时还被处死，这些人遭受的指控和李石基目前面临的指控一样。国家情报院的前身韩国中央情报局(KCIA)曾是独裁者钟爱的政治运动工具，用于把政治对手划定为朝鲜同情者；后来的历届政府都誓言要改革该机构，并将其阻挡在国内政治之外。