SEOUL, South Korea — When the South Korean artist Hong Sung-dam produced a painting that depicted President Park Geun-hye as a scarecrow manipulated by evil forces, including her dictator father, her senior aides discussed how to “punish” Hong, according to a diary one of them kept.
韩国首尔——韩国艺术家洪成潭(Hong Sung-dam)创作了一幅画，把总统朴槿惠画成一个稻草人，受到一些邪恶力量的操纵，其中包括她的独裁者父亲。朴槿惠一个高级助理保存的日记显示，她的高级助理讨论了要如何“惩罚”洪成潭。
Soon after the painting’s completion in August 2014, the retaliation began as planned in the aide’s diary, which surfaced in November in the investigation into the corruption scandal that has led to Park’s impeachment trial.
日记显示，2014年8月这幅画完成之后不久，他们就制定了报复计划。这件事在去年11月调查朴槿惠腐败丑闻时被曝光，该调查也导致了对她的弹劾审判。
First, a pro-government civic group sued Hong on charges of defaming Park. Then his work was excluded from the Gwangju Biennale, South Korea’s best-known international arts festival, an act Gwangju’s mayor later admitted was due to government pressure.
首先是一个亲政府的公民组织起诉洪成潭，指控他诽谤朴槿惠。然后他的作品被韩国最知名的国际艺术节“光州双年展”拒之门外。光州市长后来承认，他们是迫于政府压力才这么做的。
The retaliation did not stop there, Hong said. “Dozens of conservative activists showed up in front of my apartment like a goon squad, shaking my photographs and calling me a ‘Communist painter,'” he said. “I received death threats on the phone.”
但洪成潭说，报复并没有停止。“几十个保守派活动人士出现在我的公寓前，跟一群打手一样，他们晃动我的照片，说我是‘共产主义画家’”，他说。“我还接到了死亡威胁电话。”
As it turned out, Hong was one of thousands of artists reportedly blacklisted by the government of Park, whose powers have been suspended as she faces an impeachment trial on charges of corruption and abuse of power. The blacklist is one of several elements in the sprawling case that have infuriated the public and prompted national introspection about South Korea’s young democracy and its authoritarian past.
据说朴槿惠政府将数以千计的艺术家列入了黑名单，洪成潭就是其中的一个，现在朴槿惠暂时失去了总统权力，面临着腐败和滥用权力罪名的弹劾审判。这个大案中有几个因素激怒公众，黑名单就是其中之一，此事也促使民众对韩国羽翼未丰的民主制度，以及以前的专制主义进行反思。
On Thursday, three of Park’s former aides, including one of her former culture ministers, Kim Jong-deok, were arrested on charges of blacklisting cultural figures deemed unfriendly and barring them from government-controlled support programs.
周四，朴槿惠的三名前助理——包括她的前文化部长金钟德(Kim Jong-deok)——被指控将视为不友好的文化人物列进黑名单，并禁止他们参加政府控制的支持项目。
A 2015 version of the list included more than 9,000 people, according to news reports. The list contained some of South Korea’s most beloved filmmakers, actors and writers, including the director of “Oldboy,” Park Chan-wook, and the “Snowpiercer” actor Song Kang-ho.
新闻报道说，这个黑名单2015年就有逾9000人在列。其中包括韩国最受欢迎的一些电影人、演员和作家，包括《老男孩》(Oldboy)导演朴赞郁(Chan-wook Park)以及《雪国列车》演员宋康昊(Kang-ho Song)。
The revelations about the cultural blacklist added a new layer of notoriety to the scandal surrounding Park, and prosecutors planned to use the list to help strengthen the impeachment charges against her.
文化黑名单事件的曝光给朴槿惠丑闻案增添了一个新的恶名，检察官打算利用这份黑名单来加码对她的弹劾指控。
Both Park and Kim, her former chief of staff, have denied involvement. However, another of Park’s former culture ministers, Yoo Jin-ryong, said the list was dictated by the president’s office.
朴槿惠及其前任幕僚长金钟德都否认参与此事。但是，朴槿惠的另一个前文化部长刘震龙(Yoo Jin-Ryong)说，这份名单是由总统办公室决定的。