BUSAN, South Korea — The Korea Air Force Academy recently decided that it would grant its highest academic award for graduating seniors, the presidential prize, not to the valedictorian but to the salutatorian. Traditionally the prize is given to the student with the highest grade-point average, but the administrators said they chose the runner-up this year because he had performed better than the valedictorian in nonacademic areas like physical fitness and leadership, and in military studies.
韩国釜山——韩国空军士官学校(Korea Air Force Academy)最近决定，要把给予成绩最优秀的毕业生的最高奖项总统奖章颁发给第二名，而不是第一名。传统上，这个奖项会颁发给平均绩点最高的学生，但校方表示，他们今年选择第二名是因为他在学业之外的领域，表现比第一名要好，比如身体素质、领导力，以及军事研究。
But to many South Koreans, the real reason for the choice was obvious: The valedictorian was a woman and the salutatorian a man.
然而在很多韩国人看来，做出这个选择的真正原因不言而喻：第一名是女生，第二名是男生。
South Korea first allowed women into the military in 1950 during the Korean War. Back then, female soldiers mainly held administrative and support positions. Women began to take on combat roles in the 1990s when the three military academies, exclusive to men, began accepting women. In 2013, female soldiers numbered more than 8,200 in a total military force of 639,000 soldiers.
韩国最开始允许女性入伍是在朝鲜战争期间的1950年。当时，女性主要占据行政和支持性的岗位。上世纪90年代，女性开始承担作战任务，三家只招收男生的军事院校也开始招收女生。2013年，在共计有63.9万人的武装部队中，女兵人数超过了8200名。
Women now serve in nearly every branch of the military (they are banned from select marine and commando units because of the strength requirements) and their enrollment has climbed steadily. But as the number of women in the military has grown, discrimination against them has not eased.
现在几乎所有兵种中都有女兵的身影（女兵不能选择海军陆战队和突击队中的一些单位，原因是无法满足体能要求），入伍的女兵人数也不断增加。尽管部队中女兵人数出现了增长，但是针对她们的歧视却并没有缓解。
An investigation by the National Human Rights Commission, released in November 2013, found that close to 12 percent of women in the military experienced sexual harassment, and that 71 percent of female soldiers were aware that their superiors preferred male subordinates to female. Thirty-four percent of the women who experienced sexual harassment said that, since they did not believe the military would ever change, they would just endure the discrimination.
韩国国家人权委员会(National Human Rights Commission)在2013年11月发布的一份调查报告中指出，军队中接近12%的女兵经受过性骚扰，71%的女兵发觉她们的上司更青睐男性下属。在经受过性骚扰的女兵中，有34%表示，她们不相信军队会发生改变，所以会干脆忍受歧视。
The problems faced by female soldiers are mirrored in the military academies. While these institutions have not completely ignored the issue of mistreatment of women, their approach has been misguided.
女兵面临的问题在军事院校中也得到了反映。尽管这些院校并没有完全忽视女性受到歧视的问题，但它们的应对举措却并不恰当。
Last May, after a second-year female student was raped by a fourth-year male student, the Korea Military Academy announced stricter enforcement of its “three prohibitions” — on marriage, smoking and drinking. (It also took disciplinary action against the participants.) Shortly after, the navy and army announced similar measures.
去年5月，一名二年级女生被四年级男生强奸后，韩国陆军士官学校(Korea Military Academy)宣布，要更严格地实施该校的“三项禁令”——禁止结婚、抽烟和饮酒。（校方还对参与者给予了纪律处分。）不久以后，海军和陆军也公布了类似的举措。
In June, the Naval Academy published a “Female Students’ Guidebook for Relations with the Opposite Gender.” Women were strongly advised to apply only basic makeup, use neutral-colored nail polish and wear subtle shades of lipstick. Strongly scented perfumes were banned and undergarments should “not sully the student’s dignity,” the pamphlet added.
去年6月，海军士官学校(Naval Academy)发布了一份《女生异性关系指导手册》，其中强烈建议女生只化淡妆，使用无色的指甲油，涂淡色的唇膏。手册中还提到，禁止喷洒香气浓烈的香水，内衣“也不得有损学生的尊严”。
While a ban on smoking and drinking may make sense in a military academy, the logic of forbidding marriage is confusing. Married cadets are much less likely to cause trouble, and the ban shows just how far out of touch the administrators are. But the Naval Academy’s booklet for women is patently offensive: It suggests that women who are sexually assaulted have only themselves to blame.
尽管在军校内禁止抽烟饮酒还算合理，但禁止结婚的逻辑却令人困惑。已婚的军校学员制造麻烦的可能性要低很多，禁令只能显示出校方的管理人员与现实的脱节有多么严重。但是海军士官学校发给女生的手册明显令人不快：它暗示，受到袭击的女生自己要承担责任。
From the early 1960s to the mid-1980s — the era of military dictatorship when South Korea was rebuilding itself from a postwar economic basket case to a humming, modern nation — military schools were the track of choice for ambitious young men. Bright, talented boys without enough money for private school tuition competed for the free education, housing and living stipend offered by the academies — and the status that came with enrollment. President Park Chung-hee, who held office from 1963-79, and the two presidents after him graduated from the Korea Military Academy.
从上世纪60年代初到80年代中期，军校一直是志向远大的青年男子所青睐的人生道路——那个时代韩国处在军事独裁之下，从战后的不毛之地转变成了一个繁忙的现代国家。富有聪明才智，但交不起私立学校学费的少年，为了取得军校提供的免费教育、住宿、生活津贴，以及录取后赢得的社会地位，开展了激烈的竞争。在1963年至1979年在位的朴正熙总统，以及他之后的两位总统，都毕业于韩国陆军士官学校。
The military suddenly lost its stature when the dictatorship ended in 1987. Today, being in the army means living on a modest salary in one of South Korea’s coldest regions near the demilitarized zone. Military men have trouble finding wives: Many young women, accustomed to a comfortable urban lifestyle (or, at least, aspiring to one), have little regard for professional soldiers. And the constant movement of a military life can be tough on children. My father was an officer in the army, and I was forced to change elementary schools six times.
独裁统治在1987年结束后，军方突然失去了自己的地位。今天，参军意味着拿着有限的薪水，驻扎在非军事区附近韩国最冷的地区之一。许多军人在择偶时都会遇到困难，许多年轻女性习惯了舒适的城市生活方式（或者至少向往这种生活），不太看得上职业军人。而时常搬迁的军旅生活对孩子们也很艰难。我的父亲曾在陆军服役，我在小学时曾被迫转学六次。
Yet the military academies are very popular with women. As South Korea’s economic growth has slowed, full-time jobs have become scarce, especially for women. In contrast to the rate of male labor participation (the labor force as a percentage of the whole population) of 73.3 percent, the rate for women is 49.9 percent. Even young women who find good jobs can have their careers sidelined by maternity leave and child care.
然而军事院校在女性当中却很受欢迎。随着韩国经济增长的放缓，全职工作变得稀少，尤其是对女性而言。男性的劳动参与率（劳动人口占总人口的百分比）为73.3%，而女性只有49.9%。即使年轻女性找到了好工作，她们也会发现休产假和带孩子时，自己的事业被边缘化。
But the military comes with attractive benefits, especially for women, who are rarely derailed from advancement when they have babies. The 2010 census showed that women in the military have a fertility rate of 1.61 children, compared with a national rate of 1.15 children per woman. A military career offers the stability many South Korean women crave.
但是军队提供的福利很有吸引力，尤其是对女性来说，她们在晋升路上，极少会因为生育而受到影响。2010年的人口普查数据显示，女军人的生育率为1.61个孩子，但全国平均水平则是每人1.15个孩子。军旅生涯提供的稳定性是许多韩国女性渴望的。