BEDFORD, N.Y. — With its blue-and-gold regalia and its link to French royalty, the chocolate shop by the Bedford Hills train station looked as if it would fit right in when it opened several years ago in this well-to-do suburb.
纽约州贝德福德——贝德福德山火车站附近的这家巧克力店，有着蓝色和金色相间的徽章，与法国王室也有关系，所以几年前在这个富裕的社区里开张时，看起来与周遭环境十分相称。
Now, it is an unlikely portal to a drama unfolding thousands of miles away, as the cobwebs on its front door and the broken glass on its side entrance faintly hint.
然而现在，它却意想不到地成为了正在万里之外展开的戏码的一个切入点。这家店正门前的蛛网和侧门上破碎的玻璃就显示出了这一点。
After an overloaded ferry sank on April 16 in South Korea, taking 304 people, mostly schoolchildren, down with it, the South Korean police have arrested dozens of crew members, inspectors, regulators, emergency medical workers and executives connected to Chonghaejin Marine, the company that operated the Sewol, the ill-fated ferry.
今年4月16日，一艘超载的渡船在韩国沉没，导致304人溺水死亡或失踪，其中主要是中学生。韩国警方已经逮捕了数十名船员、检查人员、监管人员、急救人员，以及与清海镇海运公司(Chonghaejin Marine)有关的高管。沉没的渡轮世越号（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）就是由清海镇公司经营的。
Through Interpol, South Korea has sought other countries’ help in capturing members and some confidants of the far-flung Yoo family who already face charges back home for embezzlement and other financial crimes. Prosecutors say they are building a case showing that these key insiders controlled the ferry company through a web of companies and drained it of assets that could have been spent on safety. South Korean tax authorities have also pressed their foreign counterparts to see if the family is hiding assets abroad that could compensate the victims’ families.
韩国通过国际刑警组织(Interpol)请求其他国家帮助抓捕四散逃跑的俞氏家族成员，以及一些亲信，这些人在韩国国内面临着贪污及其他经济犯罪的指控。检察官表示，他们搜集的证据显示，这些关键的内部人物，通过一系列关系复杂的企业控制着这家海运公司，并且将本来可以花在安全上的资金挪用一空。韩国税务机关也向其他国家的税务部门施压，查看俞炳彦家族是否曾在海外藏匿财产。这类财产可以被用来补偿受害者家属。
One of those facing charges in South Korea is Yoo Hyuk-kee, who was being groomed to take over the family empire from its patriarch, Yoo Byung-eun. The younger Mr. Yoo, 41, also known as Keith Yoo, is an owner of at least two homes in Westchester County. It is not clear whether he has been in them recently.
其中一个在韩国受到指控的人是俞赫基(Yoo Hyuk-kee)，他经过悉心培养，按计划会从家长俞炳彦(Yoo Byung-eun)手中接过家族帝国的控制权。俞赫基的英文名为Keith，在威斯特徹斯特县至少拥有两套房产。目前尚不清楚他最近是否在那里居住过。
American authorities say he might not even be in the country.
美国当局表示，俞赫基可能都不在美国。
It was Mr. Yoo who persuaded Debauve & Gallais, the Paris-based chocolate business that got its start pampering royals two centuries ago, to give him the rights to sell its chocolates in the United States, friends and business associates recalled.
友人和商业伙伴回忆道，正是俞赫基说服了总部位于巴黎的巧克力店黛堡嘉莱(Debauve & Gallais)，授权他在美国销售该品牌的巧克力。黛堡嘉莱两个世纪以前，是靠取悦王室起家的。
He heralded the opening of the flagship store on Madison Avenue with a celebrity-filled gala at the Pratt House in January 2005. That was accompanied by a wholesale business selling to places like Barneys and the opening of a satellite store in Bedford, near the train station.
2005年1月，他在普拉特大楼(Pratt House)举办了一场明星云集的晚会，以此庆祝麦迪逊大街(Madison Avenue)旗舰店的开张。与此同时，他开设了一家批发商店，专门为巴尼斯(Barneys)这样的高档商店供货。此外，他还在贝德福德的火车站附近开设了那家分店。
Though Mr. Yoo sold the products here, Debauve & Gallais had no connection to the ferry company and was not under the Yoos’ control. But the Bedford address that Mr. Yoo used for the chocolate store has been a hub for other family enterprises. Judging from various government filings, the building has at some point been home to Tea of Teas, an offshoot of the family’s green-tea plantations; Naeclear Consulting, tied to the patriarch’s specially designed enema kits; and Ahae Press Inc., which publishes and promotes the patriarch’s photos.
尽管俞赫基在这里出售黛堡嘉莱的产品，但这个品牌与船运公司并无关联，也不受俞氏家族的控制。但是俞赫基在贝德福德用来经营巧克力店的地址，却成了其他家族企业的一个集中地。根据各种政府申报文件判断，这栋建筑一度曾容纳了数家公司，包括俞氏家族绿茶种植园的一个分支Tea of Teas、与俞炳彦专门设计的灌肠器材相关的Naeclear咨询公司，以及出版和推广俞炳彦摄影作品的Ahae出版公司。
Two charities have also used the address. One is Evangelical Media Group, a tax-exempt organization that Mr. Yoo helped found in 1990 with his future father-in-law for the purpose of “advancing the teachings and beliefs of the Korean Evangelical Baptist Church,” which his father led. The group later moved to an office in Mount Kisco but left a few months ago, said the landlord, who had no forwarding address.
有两家非营利机构也使用了这个地址，其中一个是免税的福音媒体集团(Evangelical Media Group)。俞赫基在1990年与他的未来岳父共同建立的这家机构，目的是“推进韩国基督教福音浸礼会的教诲和信仰”，而这个教会是他的父亲领导的。后来，福音媒体集团搬到了基思科山的一间办公室，但房东表示该集团已于数月前搬走，而且房东并没有邮件转寄地址。
The second charity is the quirkily named Hemato-Centric Life Institute, which lists Mr. Yoo as the chairman of its board. The organization’s stated mission is the promotion of “research and educational activities focused on the importance of blood” to public health. Yet, the institute put up $289,000 in 2011, almost half of what it spent that year, on something termed “GC event,” apparently referring to an exhibit of the patriarch’s nature photographs held that year in Grand Central Terminal.
另一家非营利机构是名字怪异的血液中心生命研究所(Hemato-Centric Life Institute)，该机构称俞赫基是董事长。这家机构声称自己的目标是推广“研究和教育活动，关注血液在公众健康中的重要性”。但是这家研究所在2011年披露，花费了28.9万美元（约合178万元人民币）用于开展一项所谓的“GC活动”，这一金额几乎相当于该机构当年花销的一半。那场活动似乎是那一年在纽约中央车站(Grand Central Terminal)举办的俞炳彦自然摄影作品展。
Among the ways that South Korean authorities said the Yoo family sapped the ferry company of cash was to have it buy some of the patriarch’s photos at fanciful prices. The company, prosecutors say, also dangerously overloaded the ferry with cargo, then reduced the amount of the ballast water so that, to inspectors on shore, the boat would not appear weighted down. That made the ferry more prone to tipping, which is what happened on April 16.
韩国官方表示，俞氏家族榨取航运公司钱财的多种手段就包括，迫使该公司以令人咋舌的价格，购买俞炳彦的某些摄影作品。检方表示，这家公司冒着危险，在渡船上超载货物，之后再减少压舱水的重量。这样一来，岸边的检查人员观察起来，船只就不会显得吃水太深。但这也会让船只更容易倾覆，就像4月16日发生的那样。
The Yoos’ defenders argue that the government is making a scapegoat of the family to draw attention from its own poor emergency response to the ferry sinking. Asked about the rationale for the charity’s underwriting a photo exhibit, a public relations firm that has been representing Ahae Press and Keith Yoo declined to provide details, and a reporter who visited the office that Hemato-Centric now shares with Ahae Press in Mount Kisco was turned away. Messages left by reporters over the last month on the phone and in person at Mr. Yoo’s homes and offices have not been answered.
然而为俞氏家族辩护的人却说，政府是在拿俞氏家族当替罪羊，从而吸引公众的注意力，使人们不再关注渡船沉没后政府糟糕的应急响应表现。在被问到上述非营利机构有什么理由出资支持摄影展时，一直代表Ahae出版社和俞赫基的一家公关公司拒绝透露细节。一名记者拜访基思科山那间办公室时，遭到了驱赶，那间办公室现在由血液中心和Ahae出版社共用。过去一个月里，记者曾通过电话和亲自拜访，在俞赫基的家和办公室留言，但都没有得到答复。