SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea failed to launch two intermediate-range ballistic missiles on Thursday, the South Korean Defense Ministry said, adding to a string of unsuccessful weapons tests in the past two weeks.
韩国首尔——韩国国防部称，朝鲜周四发射两枚中程弹道导弹失败，为该国过去两周一连串未成功的武器试验再添一笔。
In the first attempted launch, the powerful Musudan missile crashed into the sea seconds after ignition. Hours after that attempt, North Korea fired another missile of the same type, but that test also failed, the ministry said.
第一次尝试时，威力强大的“舞水端”(Musudan)导弹在点火几秒钟后坠入大海。韩国国防部称，几小时后，朝鲜又发射了一枚同类型导弹，但这次试验也失败了。
Thursday’s attempts bring the total failures in launching the Musudan — one of the North’s most powerful missiles deployed or under development — to three in the past two weeks, according to South Korean officials.
韩国官员称，包括周四的尝试在内，朝鲜过去两周里发射“舞水端”导弹遭遇了三次失败。在朝鲜已部署或正在研发的导弹中，“舞水端”的威力名列前茅。
The successive failures are a potential embarrassment for North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, just days before a rare congress of his ruling Workers’ Party, the North’s biggest political meeting in decades.
再过几天，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)领导的执政党劳动党(Workers’ Party)便将举行一次罕见的代表大会。这将是朝鲜几十年来规模最大的政治会议。值此之际，试验连续失败可能会让金正恩感到难堪。
Outside analysts had expected a dramatic gesture like a Musudan launch, or possibly the country’s fifth nuclear test, in an attempt to burnish Mr. Kim’s image before the congress, which begins on May 6 and is widely seen as a platform for the young leader to bolster his grip on power.
外部分析人士以为，在大会召开前，朝鲜会尝试用发射“舞水端”导弹或是进行第五次核试验这样的大动作，来提升金正恩的形象。将于5月6日开幕的劳动党大会，被普遍认为是年轻的金正恩用来加强权力控制的平台。
On Thursday, President Park Geun-hye of South Korea said there were signs that another nuclear test by North Korea might be imminent. Such a test would provoke more sanctions and leave the North with “no future,” she warned.
周四当天，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)称多个迹象表明，朝鲜可能会再次进行核试验。她警告说，这种试验会引发更多制裁，导致朝鲜“没有未来”。
North Korea first launched a Musudan on April 15, a test that ended in what officials in Seoul and Washington called a spectacular failure as the projectile exploded shortly after liftoff.
朝鲜于4月15日第一次发射“舞水端”导弹。首尔和华盛顿的官员称那次试验惨遭失败，因为导弹起飞后不久便爆炸了。
After that test, the United Nations Security Council issued a statement warning increased sanctions if the North’s provocations continued. North Korea is banned by the Security Council from testing ballistic missiles.
那次试验过后，联合国安理会发表了一份声明，警告称如果朝鲜继续挑衅将增加制裁。安理会禁止朝鲜试射弹道导弹。
North Korea flouted that warning on Thursday by firing the two Musudan missiles from sites near Wonsan, a port on North Korea’s east coast, the South Korean Defense Ministry said in a statement. South Korean and American officials are investigating the cause of the failure, it said.
韩国国防部在一份声明中称，周四当天，朝鲜公然藐视安理会的警告，在该国东部海岸的港口元山附近的发射场发射两枚“舞水端”导弹。声明说，韩国和美国的官员正在调查试验失败的原因。
The Musudan missile has a range of 1,860 to 2,180 miles, long enough to reach United States military bases in Guam. South Korean military officials say the Musudan, a modified version of a submarine-launched missile from the Soviet military, was designed to carry nuclear warheads, but it remains unclear whether the North is capable of making nuclear weapons small and sophisticated enough to be mounted on such a missile.
“舞水端”导弹的射程在1860到2180英里之间，足以抵达美国设在关岛的军事基地。韩国军方官员称，从苏联军方的一款潜射导弹改良而来的“舞水端”导弹的设计意图是搭载核弹头，但目前尚不清楚朝鲜是否能够让核武器够小、够精密，使之可以被装载在这种导弹上。
In March, Mr. Kim ordered his military to conduct more tests of ballistic missiles capable of delivering such warheads.
今年3月，金正恩下令军队增加能运载这类弹头的弹道导弹的试验。
North Korea has tested many of its short-range Scud and medium-range Rodong missiles, but not much is known about the Musudan, which was unveiled in 2010 during a military parade in Pyongyang.
朝鲜试射了很多“飞毛腿”(Scud)短程导弹和“芦洞”(Rodong)中程导弹，但有关“舞水端”导弹的信息外界知之甚少。2010年，“舞水端”导弹在平壤的阅兵式上亮相。