SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye acted as a criminal accomplice for her longtime friend in extorting tens of millions of dollars from businesses, prosecutors said Sunday, dealing another blow to the South Korean leader, who faced a nationwide call to step down.
韩国首尔——韩国检方周日称，总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)在自己多年的朋友向企业勒索数千万美元一事上充当了共犯的角色。这是此位在全国范围内被要求下台的韩国领导人受到的又一次打击。
Under the country’s constitution, prosecutors cannot indict the president on criminal charges until after she leaves office. But their findings further weakened Park’s authority. On Saturday, huge crowds protested in Seoul and other major cities for the fourth straight weekend, demanding that she resign or face impeachment.
根据韩国宪法，检方不得在总统离任前对其提出刑事指控。但他们的发现进一步削弱了朴槿惠的威信。周六，大规模人群在首尔和其他主要城市连续第四个周末举行抗议活动，要求她辞职或接受弹劾。
Prosecutors identified Park as an accomplice Sunday while indicting her friend, Choi Soon-sil, on criminal charges including extortion and abuse of official power.
周日当天，检方在对朴槿惠的朋友崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)提出包括敲诈勒索和滥用公权力在内的多项刑事指控的同时，确认她是共犯。
A former presidential aide to Park was also indicted Sunday on the same charges, as prosecutors accused him of helping Choi with the extortion. Another former presidential aide was indicted on charges of leaking confidential government documents to Choi. Although she had no experience in government or policymaking, Choi was accused of meddling in a wide range of state affairs, like editing Park’s speeches and helping her appoint key officials.
朴槿惠的一名前总统助手当天也被控犯有同样的罪行。检方指控他协助崔顺实敲诈勒索。另一名前总统助手被控向崔顺实泄露机密政府文件。尽管没有政府或政策制定方面的经验，崔顺实被控干涉各种各样的国事，包括编辑朴槿惠的演讲稿和参与任命主要官员。
“We have determined that President Park was an accomplice in many of the criminal acts” of Choi and the two former aides, Lee Yeong-ryeol, a senior prosecutor, said during a nationally televised news briefing.
高级检察官李银律（Lee Yeong-ryeol，音）在一场通过电视面向全国播放的新闻发布会上说，“我们已查明，朴槿惠总统是”崔顺实和两位前助手“很多犯罪行为的共犯”。
Lee said prosecutors had based their determination partly on information they collected from the two former aides’ notebooks, diaries and cellphones, which contained instructions from Park.
李银律称，检方的判断部分是基于从两名前助手的笔记本、日记和手机中搜集到的信息。它们记录了朴槿惠的指示。
Park is the first sitting president of South Korea to be accused by prosecutors of a criminal conspiracy.
朴槿惠是韩国首位被检方指控为共犯的在任总统。
There was no immediate reaction from Park’s office. She has apologized twice for the scandal but has not admitted to legal wrongdoing.
朴槿惠的办公室没有立即作出回应。她已经两度为这一丑闻道歉，但尚未承认自己有违法行为。
Choi, the president’s friend, was accused of forcing Samsung, Hyundai and 51 other major businesses to donate a total of $65 million to two foundations she controlled. The businesses feared tax inquiries and other governmental retaliation if they did not donate, Lee said.
作为朴槿惠的朋友，崔顺实被控逼迫三星(Samsung)、现代(Hyundai)和其他51家大型企业向她控制的两个基金会总计捐款6500万美元（约合4.5亿元人民币）。李银律称，这些企业担心，如果不捐款，它们可能会受到纳税调查和政府的其他报复。
Choi was also accused of forcing businesses to give contracts amounting to $12 million to companies controlled by her or her associates. They also tried in vain to wrest control of a lucrative public relations agency through blackmailing, Lee said. And they forced Lotte, a South Korean conglomerate, to donate $5.9 million for sports facilities under Choi’s control, he said. (The money was later returned.)
崔顺实还被控逼迫企业将总价值1200万美元的合同交给她或她的合作伙伴控制的公司。李银律称，他们还试图通过敲诈操控一家获利颇丰的公关公司，最终未果。此外，李银律称，这些人逼迫韩国企业集团乐天(Lotte)为崔顺实控制的体育设施捐款590万美元。（后来，这笔钱被返还。）
The embattled loyalists of Park have begun fighting back in the past week, accusing the protesters of trying her in a “people’s court.” A former prime minister for Park accused her enemies of a “witch hunt.” On Saturday, conservatives held a rally in support of Park, although it was much smaller than the anti-government protests.
忠于朴槿惠的支持者处境艰难。过去一周里，他们开始反击，指控检方是在“公众法庭”上审判她。一名曾在朴槿惠任内任职的前总理指责朴槿惠的政敌是在进行“政治迫害”。周六，保守派举行了一场支持朴槿惠的集会，但规模远小于反政府抗议活动。