SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s main intelligence agency confirmed on Tuesday that North Korea has restarted a Soviet-era nuclear reactor that has been used to obtain plutonium for bombs, according to South Korean legislators.
韩国首尔——据韩国议员称，韩国主要情报机构周二证实，朝鲜已重启一处前苏联时代的核反应堆，该反应堆一直被用来获取制造核弹所需的钚。
Nuclear experts in the United States, including at the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University, reported last month that satellite photographs indicated that North Korea had restarted the five-megawatt reactor at its main nuclear complex in Yongbyon, north of Pyongyang, the capital.
上月，包括约翰斯·霍普金斯大学美韩研究所(U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University)专家在内的一些美国核专家报告称，卫星图像显示，朝鲜已重启其主要核设施的一处五百万瓦特的核反应堆，该设施位于首都平壤北部的宁边。
Two lawmakers — Cho Won-jin from the governing party and Jung Cheong-rae from the opposition — told reporters at a joint news briefing on Tuesday that Nam Jae-joon, the director of the National Intelligence Service of South Korea, confirmed the restart during a closed parliamentary session. The two lawmakers were designated by their parties to relay the news to reporters. A spokesman for the intelligence service refused to confirm or deny the legislators’ comments.
两名议员——来自执政党的赵元真（Cho Won-jin，音译）以及来自反对党的郑清来(Jung Cheong-rae)——在周二举行的联合新闻发布会上称，韩国国家情报院院长南在俊(Nam Jae-joon)在一次议会闭门会议期间证实，朝鲜确已重启该核反应堆。两名议员所在政党指派二人将此消息传达给媒体。情报院发言人拒绝证实或否认两名议员的言论。
North Korea has yet to confirm the reported resumption of nuclear activity, although it had repeatedly warned that it was preparing to restart it after a six-year hiatus.
朝鲜尚未对据报已重新开展的核活动给予证实，但此前它曾反复警告，称其正准备重启该处休眠六年的核设施。
Until the North shut the reactor down in 2007 in a short-lived nuclear disarmament deal with the United States, the reactor’s spent fuel was the country’s source of plutonium fuel for weapons. American intelligense officials estimate that the North, which conducted three underground nuclear tests between 2006 and February of this year, secured enough plutonium from reprocessing the spent fuel to build as many as a dozen bombs.
2007年，朝鲜和美国达成了一项短暂的解除核武协定，随即关闭了该核反应堆，在此之前，这里的乏燃料一直是朝鲜的武器级钚燃料来源。美国情报官员估计，曾在2006年至今年2月份之间进行过三次地下核试验的朝鲜，已通过对乏燃料的再加工储备了一些钚燃料，足以制造多达十数枚核弹。
The country has also said it is running a program that can provide it with another type of bomb fuel: highly enriched uranium.
朝鲜还表示，该国正在开展一个项目，该项目能够为朝鲜提供另一种核武器燃料：高浓缩铀。
The resumption of activity at the Yongbyon reactor, coupled with the North’s uranium enrichment program, is likely to increase international concerns over the North’s nuclear capabilities and its potential to export nuclear materials and technologies to other states.
宁边反应堆的重启，再加上朝鲜的铀浓缩项目，很可能会加剧国际社会对朝鲜核能力及朝鲜向其他国家输出核材料和技术的可能性的担忧。
Also on Tuesday, North Korea said it had put its military on high alert, warning the United States of “disastrous consequences” for moving a group of ships, including an aircraft carrier, into a South Korean port for a military exercise. But the exercise, scheduled to begin on Tuesday, was postponed because of a typhoon.
周二，朝鲜还表示该国军队已经处于高度戒备状态，并且警告称，如果美国派遣包括一艘航空母舰在内的舰队进入韩国港口开展军演，美国将面临“灾难性后果”。不过，原定于周二开始的军演已因台风而推迟。