YEONGDEOK, South Korea — Visitors to this idyllic stretch of coast marvel at the landscapes of emerald sea crashing against steep bluffs and undulating hills quilted with green pines. They stop at seaside restaurants with cheerful red signs advertising the local delicacy, known as bamboo crab, and watch trawlers sail back to picturesque fishing villages.
韩国盈德郡——游客们漫步在如诗如画的海岸边，碧蓝的海水拍打着陡峭的悬崖，连绵起伏的山岭点缀着幽绿的松柏。游客驻足在岸畔餐馆，那里红艳的招牌介绍着一种名为竹蟹的当地美食；他们还可望见渔民扬帆归来，回到美丽的渔村。
Yet for many of the people who actually make Yeongdeok (pronounced Young-duck) their home, life has become increasingly gloomy — and solitary. Young people leave to pursue careers in distant cities, and years of overfishing has led to skimpier catches.
但对于许多将盈德郡视作故乡的人来说，生活已然变得愈发沉闷和寂落。年轻人离开家乡，去远方城市追求发展；长年累月的过度捕捞致使渔获在减少。
On weekdays, when the tourists and sightseers have left, loneliness descends.
平日里，当游人和观光客一一离去，寂寥随之笼罩。
So in 2010, the 399 mostly older people who made up the population of three villages agreed to give up their land and their centuries-old way of life to make room for something few other places wanted: a nuclear power plant.
因此，在2010年，三个村庄中的399位村民，大部分都是老人，决定放弃他们的土地和几百年来的生活方式，为一个在别的地方通常不受欢迎的东西让路：核电站。
That act plunged the surrounding Yeongdeok County into a bitter debate over whether the plant would be a savior or a death knell. The clash also revealed the depth of despair in South Korea’s increasingly empty rural communities, as well as growing misgivings about the country’s heavy dependence on nuclear power.
这一决议令盈德郡上下陷入尖锐的讨论：核电站究竟将成为救世主还是丧钟。这场交锋同样揭示了来自日益衰微的韩国农村的绝望之深，以及这个国家对严重依赖核电增长的恐惧。
“We have no hope, no alternative other than a nuclear power plant,” said Lee Wan-seop, 54.
“除了核电站，我们毫无希望，别无选择，”54岁的李晚燮(Lee Wan-seop)表示。
Mr. Lee, a Yeongdeok native, believed that a power plant would bring “a great luck,” creating jobs and revenues, and arrest the county’s long decline.
作为土生土长的盈德郡人，李晚燮相信核电站将带来“好运”，创造就业、增加收入，终结这里的长期衰退。
On the other side of the debate were villagers like Shin Wang-ki, 56, who grows pears, apples and peaches and believed that a plant would mean the end to a longstanding and cherished way of life.
辩论的另一方是像申枉基(Shin Wang-ki)这样的村民。他今年56岁，以种植梨、苹果和桃子为生。在他看来，建立核电站，意味着终结长期以来珍视的生活方式。
“No way! Who’s going to buy fruits or crabs from an area near a nuclear power plant?” he said. “I inherited a clean land from my ancestors and want to leave it untainted for my children.”
“没门！谁会买来自核电站附近的水果或者螃蟹？”他说，“我从祖辈手上继承了一片干净的土地，我希望不受玷污地传给我的孩子。”
Yeongdeok, 155 miles southeast of Seoul, has some of the more beautiful vistas along the country’s east coast. Rolling waves burst into snow-white fields of foam at the foot of cliffs. For centuries, fishermen have carved their homes into the bluffs, like bird’s nests, plucking abalones and sailing out for bamboo crabs.
盈德郡位于首尔东南部155英里外，坐拥韩国东海岸线绮丽壮美的风景。翻腾的海浪拍击在悬崖脚下，迸碎成雪白的浪花。几个世纪以来，渔民如鸟儿筑巢一般，在悬崖绝壁雕凿出自己的家，他们捕捞鲍鱼，扬帆出海捕捉竹蟹。
Yet the county’s unusual pitch for a nuclear plant was driven by the same fight for survival seizing rural communities in South Korea and many other parts of the world. (Cheongsong, a county west of Yeongdeok, is campaigning for a new state prison.)
然而，和其他许多国家一样，在对核电站异乎寻常的热衷背后，是竭力保存农村社区的抗争。（梁山市是盈德郡西边另一小城，正在推动修建一座新的州郡监狱。）
Yeongdeok’s population, numbering 113,000 in 1974, has plunged to just 38,000 — nearly one-third of the people are 65 or older — and with deaths outnumbering births four to one, it is expected to shrink further. The county can supply only 8.8 percent of its budget on its own; the central government makes up the rest.
盈德郡的人口，从1974年的11.3万锐减到仅3.8万，其中三分之一都在65岁或以上；鉴于死亡人数超过新生人数四倍，人口数预期会继续缩减。盈德郡自身只能负担其预算的8.8%，其余都需要中央政府补贴。
So in 2005, when South Korea sought a storage site for low-level radioactive waste from its reactors but faced often violent protests from many communities, Yeongdeok volunteered.
因此，在2005年，韩国在为一座低放射性废物处理厂寻找落脚地时，虽然这一项目在其他地区往往遭到强烈抗议，盈德郡却自愿申请建设。
But Yeongdeok lost out to a rival bidder, Gyeongju to the south, after a greater percentage of residents, 89.5 percent, agreed to put the radioactive dump there.
但盈德郡输给了竞争对手——南部的庆州，那里89.5%的民众同意存放放射性废料，民众支持率比盈德郡高。
Five years later, when Yeongdeok learned of the government’s search for sites for new nuclear power plants, it did not want to lose out again. This time, it won the approval of all residents of the three villages offered as a site, as well as from all seven members of the County Council, before applying to the government.
五年后，当得知政府在为新核电站选址时，盈德郡不想再次失败。这次，在向政府提出申请前，相关计划获得了三个村庄的所有居民及郡议会全部七名议员的支持。
With no oil or gas reserves, South Korea must import almost all of its energy resources and finds nuclear power the cheapest way to keep its industries supplied with electricity. Its 24 nuclear reactors generate one-third of the country’s electricity. Four reactors are under construction, and another six are set to be built by 2027, including the two here.
由于没有石油或天然气储备，韩国的能源几乎全部需要进口，他们发现核电站是保持工业获得电力供应的最廉价途径。该国24座核反应堆供应了全国三分之一的电力。有四座正在建设中，另有六座将在2027年前建造，包括在这里的两座。
In 2012, South Korea selected Yeongdeok and Samcheok, a coastal city to the north, as sites for new reactors.
2012年，韩国选择盈德郡和北部沿海城市三陟市作为建造新反应堆的地点。
Yet by then, skepticism — and anxiety — was spreading. First came the 2011 Fukushima disaster in Japan. Then came another shock: Reports that emerged after a series of scandals revealed that nuclear power plants across South Korea had been using parts whose safety test results were faked.
但在那时候，怀疑和焦虑情绪正在不断蔓延。首先是2011年日本福岛核灾难带来的恐慌。后来出现了另一个令人震惊的事件：在爆出一系列丑闻后，有报道称韩国的核电站一直在使用没有通过安全测试的部件。
Last year, a new mayor in Samcheok called a referendum in which residents voted against the decision made under the previous mayor. When the mayor of Yeongdeok refused to do likewise, residents opposed to the plant began organizing and outside activists poured in. They called a referendum on their own in November.
去年，在三陟市新市长举行的公投中，居民们投票反对前任市长在任时政府做出的决定。当盈德郡守拒绝举行公投时，反对建设计划的居民开始组织活动，外部活动人士纷纷加入其中。他们在11月自行举行了公投。
The government and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Company, the country’s operator of nuclear power plants, urged residents not to take part in the referendum, which they called illegal because a state project was not subject to a county-level plebiscite. They also accused the outsiders of bringing antinuclear activism here to impede an important national project.
政府及该国核电站运营商韩国水力原子能公司(Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Company)恳求居民不要参加公投，他们称这是非法公投，因为一个国家项目不会受到郡级公投的影响。他们还指责外部人员将反核活动主义带到这里，阻碍一项重要的国家项目。
About 11,000 county residents participated in the referendum. Of them, nearly 92 percent voted against a nuclear power plant.
该地区大约1.1万名居民参加了公投，其中将近92%的居民投票反对建造核电站。
Antinuclear activists claimed victory, while the government dismissed the result and reconfirmed its plan to build a plant here.
反核活动人士宣告胜利，虽然政府无视公投结果，再次确认在这里建造核电站的计划。
The civil disobedience in Yeongdeok represented only one of the many challenges South Korea’s nuclear power industry faced, problems it never had to confront when the first reactor went into operation in 1978 under an authoritarian government. In June, a government committee warned that beginning in 2019, old plants would run out of storage space for high-level radioactive wastes. The country urgently needed to build a new, central repository for such wastes, it said.
盈德郡的非暴力反抗只是韩国核电工业面临的诸多挑战之一，1978年第一个反应堆开始运转时，当时处在威权统治下的韩国并没有遇到这样的问题。今年6月，一个政府委员会警告称，从2019年开始，旧核电站将用尽高辐射性废料的储存空间。该委员会称，韩国迫切需要建造新的集中储存库。
But the government could not even start looking. Residents of Miryang, a village in the southeast, have recently staged prolonged protests, including a self-immolation, to oppose a far smaller potential hazard: high-voltage transmission towers to carry electricity from a distant nuclear plant.
但政府甚至连选址都无法开展。东南部村庄密阳的居民最近进行长时间抗议，反对一个要小得多的潜在危险：建造高压输电塔，以便从遥远的核电站输送电力。抗议活动已经出现一例自焚。
With the referendum over, Yeongdeok was back to its old, quiet self during a recent visit. Land prices have climbed, and many new houses have popped up on coastal hills. But the houses remain largely empty as speculators hope to get the power company to buy them under a law that calls for property owners near a nuclear plant to be compensated.
公投已经结束，最近去盈德郡发现，这里已经回归过去的安静生活。土地价格攀升，沿海山区出现了很多新房屋。但这些房屋基本上空着，投机者希望根据一部法律的规定，让电力公司购买房屋，该法律规定核电站附近的业主应该获得补偿。
Residents on both sides of the nuclear question are waiting for parliamentary elections in April, when candidates from Yeongdeok will be asked to take sides.
在核问题上持不同意见的居民都在等待4月的议会选举，来自盈德郡的候选人将会被要求表明立场。