SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea said on Monday that beginning in 2017, its middle and high school students would be taught history from government-issued textbooks, prompting criticism that President Park Geun-hye’s conservative government was returning education to the country’s authoritarian past.
韩国首尔——韩国于周一表示，从2017年开始，韩国的初、高中生将使用政府发行的课本学习历史，因此有批评说朴槿惠总统的保守政府要让教育回归旧日的专制。
The administrative directive to wrest control over history textbooks from private publishers comes after months of heated public debate over how to teach children history. The controversy has focused largely on how to characterize the history of modern Korea, including Japan’s colonial rule in the early 20th century and South Korea’s tumultuous, often bloody march toward democracy.
政府的政令将从私营出版商手中夺回对历史教科书的控制权，此前公众就如何向孩子教授历史的问题已经展开了数月的激烈争论。争议主要集中在如何刻画近现代韩国的历史，包括日本在20世纪早期的殖民统治以及动荡的、时有流血事件发生的韩国民主化进程。
For years, conservative critics have charged that left-leaning authors poisoned the current textbooks and students’ minds with their “ideological biases.” The critics were especially upset with the way the textbooks described North Korea and the military dictators who once ruled South Korea, including Ms. Park’s father, Park Chung-hee, who seized power in a 1961 coup and remained in control using torture and martial law until 1979.
多年来，保守派的批评人士对左倾作者一直多有责难，称他们用“意识形态偏见”毒害了当前的教科书和学生们的思想。令这些批评人士尤其不满的是课本对朝鲜和曾统治过韩国的军事独裁者的形容，包括朴槿惠的父亲朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)，他在1961年的政变中夺取政权，通过酷刑和军管将自己的统治一直持续到1979年。
But opponents of Ms. Park, including some civic groups and regional education leaders, vowed to protest the government’s move, which they said would embarrass the country globally by creating a textbook system similar to the one in North Korea.
但是，包括公民团体和地区教育领袖在内的一些朴槿惠反对者誓称要抗议政府的举措，他们说建立一套类似朝鲜的教科书体系将让韩国在世界蒙羞。
The main opposition party said it would work on a bill to ban the government from writing textbooks. But Ms. Park’s party, which dominates the National Assembly, supports government-issued textbooks.
主要反对党表示正在制定一项法案来禁止政府编写教材。但是，在国家议会中占据主导地位的执政党支持政府发行教科书。
“The house is not just leaking or requires small repairs here and there, but its very foundation and design are wrong,” the vice prime minister and education minister, Hwang Woo-yea, said during a nationally televised news conference on Monday, explaining why textbooks written by the government should replace the current books.
“这房子已经不只是漏水或需要小修小补，而是它的根基和设计是错误的，”副总理兼教育部长黄佑吕(Hwang Woo-yea)在周一的全国电视新闻发布会上解释为什么政府编写的教科书应该取代目前的课本。
Ms. Park’s critics said the idea smacked of her father’s dictatorship, during which the government wrote history textbooks and used them to glorify his coup as a “revolution” and to justify his prolonged rule. These critics fear that Ms. Park’s government will use the new textbooks to stifle opinion and whitewash the legacy of the old conservative elites, including her father, who served as an officer in Japan’s colonial military before overseeing South Korea’s rapid economic growth.
朴槿惠的批评者说，这个想法带着她父亲的独裁意味，那一时期政府编写历史教科书将他父亲的政变美化成“革命”，并为其长期统治做辩护。这些批评人士担心，朴槿惠的政府将用新教材扼杀舆论和粉饰旧保守派精英的历史，包括她的父亲在内。朴槿惠的父亲曾是日本殖民军的军官，之后统治韩国期间实现了经济快速增长。
“The father staged a military coup, and now the daughter is engineering a coup in history education,” said Park Han-yong, a chief researcher at the Center for Historical Truth and Justice, based in Seoul. “This is a history coup that supporters of pro-Japanese collaboration and the past dictatorship have been preparing for 10 years.”
“父亲发动了军事政变，现在女儿正在策划历史教育的政变，”首尔历史真相与正义研究中心的首席研究员朴韩勇说。“这是一场历史政变，支持亲日合作和旧式独裁的人已经准备了10年。”
The center recently revealed documents that it said showed that the father of Kim Moo-sung, leader of the president’s party, was a rich businessman and pro-Japanese collaborator who once urged Koreans to make donations to finance warplanes for Japan’s World War II military.
该中心最近披露的文件显示，执政党领袖金武星(Kim Moo-sung)的父亲曾是一位富有的商人和亲日通敌者，曾动员韩国人捐款资助日本二战部队的战机。
Reflecting a prevailing conservative view here, Mr. Hwang said on Monday that textbooks should focus on teaching “the proud history of South Korea, which has achieved both democratization and industrialization in the shortest time in the world history.” His deputy, Kim Jae-choon, said that current textbooks uncritically cited North Korean propaganda and failed to make it clear that the Korean War was started by the North.
黄佑吕周一说，教材应注重教授“韩国的光荣历史，我国用人类历史上最短的时间实现了民主化和工业化。”这是保守派的普遍观点。黄佑吕的副手金载春（Kim Jae choon，音）说，现行教材不加批判地引用朝鲜的政治宣传，并未明确指出朝鲜战争是由朝鲜发动的。
“One textbook, for example, used the term ‘dictatorial’ only twice when writing about North Korea but as many as 28 times about South Korea” under its military rulers, Mr. Kim said.
“例如，一本教材写到朝鲜时仅有两次使用‘独裁’这个词，但是写军事统治下的韩国却使用该词多达28次”，金载春说道。
Under President Park Chung-hee, South Korea required schools to use a single government-issued history textbook. But since 2010, schools have been free to choose among several privately published textbooks, although the Education Ministry still has to approve the books.
在前总统朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)执政时期，韩国要求学校使用单一的政府发行历史教科书。但自2010以来，学校已经可以自由地选择一些私人出版的教科书，虽然这些书仍要获得教育部的批准。
Some of the books delved into long-hidden aspects of the recent past: collaboration with Japanese colonialists, mass killings of civilians during the Korean War and the abuse of political dissidents under the dictators. Conservatives criticized what they called “masochistic historical views” in the books and accused the authors of inculcating youngsters with “left-leaning nationalism” that they said emphasized ethnic affinity with North Korea while casting an unfavorable eye on the role of the United States in modern Korean history.
有的书探究了近代历史中许多一直避而不谈的问题：与日本殖民者的合作，朝鲜战争期间大规模屠杀平民以及独裁统治下对持不同政见者的迫害。保守党批评称书中有“自虐史观”，指责作者对青少年灌输“左倾民族主义”，他们说这些书在强调与朝鲜的民族亲近感同时，对美国在韩国近现代史上的作用投以不满的眼光。
Last year, Ms. Park warned against “ideological prejudices” in the current textbooks. The Education Ministry has since asked the publishers to make many changes in the texts, but their authors filed lawsuits against the interference.
去年，朴槿惠警告现行教科书中的“意识形态偏见”。教育部已经要求出版商在文中作多处变更，但课本的作者提出诉讼反对干涉。
The political opposition said the government’s decision deviated from the standard practice in advanced countries. They called on Mr. Hwang to step down.
政治反对党称政府的决策背离了先进国家的标准做法。他们呼吁黄佑吕下台。