SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea said on Sunday that it would quadruple the cash reward it provides for North Korean defectors arriving with sensitive information to 1 billion won, or $860,000, in an effort to encourage more elite members from the North to flee.
韩国首尔——韩国周日表示，将把对携机密信息抵达韩国的脱北者的现金奖励增加三倍至10亿韩元，约86万美元，以鼓励更多精英人士逃离朝鲜。
Since famine hit the North in the mid-1990s, more than 30,000 North Koreans have defected to the South. The South Korean government helps them resettle by providing job training, rent and other subsidies.
自朝鲜90年代中期发生饥荒以来，已有超过三万朝鲜人逃至韩国。韩国政府通过提供就业培训、房租和其他补贴帮助他们重新定居。
But it has also offered extra cash rewards for those who defected with important information on the North Korean military or the inner workings of the secretive North Korean government, as well as for those who fled with military planes or other weapons.
但韩国政府还为掌握有关朝鲜军队或神秘的朝鲜政府内部运转的重要信息，以及携军机或其他武器的脱北者提供额外的现金奖励。
On Sunday, the Unification Ministry, a South Korean government agency in charge of North Korea policies, said that it planned to increase the cash bonus for a defector with such information to $860,000 from $217,000.
周日，负责对朝政策的韩国政府机构统一部(Unification Ministry)称，他们计划将面向每个握有这类信息的脱北者的现金奖励从21.7万美元提高到86万美元。
Defectors who flee with a warship or a military fighter jet will also get $860,000, instead of the current $130,000.
携军舰或军用战斗机逃离的脱北者也将获得86万美元，而不是目前的13万美元。
Those who arrive with lesser weapons, like a tank or a machine gun, can expect rewards ranging from $43,000 to $260,000.
携坦克或机枪等次要武器抵达韩国的人获得的奖励，预计在4.3万美元到26万美元之间。
The new cash awards will take effect in April, the ministry said.
韩国统一部称新的现金奖励标准将于4月生效。
South Korea said the drastic increases reflected the effects of inflation over the 20 years since the rewards were last adjusted.
韩国称，大幅提高奖金反映了自上一次调整奖金以来的20年里的通货膨胀影响。
They come at a time when South Korean officials say that more elite members from North Korea, deeply disappointed with their leader, Kim Jong-un, and fearful of his “reign of terror,” are trying to defect to the South.
公布新标准之际，韩国官员称，精英阶层有越来越多的人对领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)深感失望且害怕他的“恐怖统治”，他们正试图逃往韩国。
Those fears can hardly have been eased by recent reports that North Korea had executed five security officials by antiaircraft fire, possibly because they had failed to prevent United States cyberattacks that disrupted several missile tests.
最近的一些报道更是加剧了恐惧。相关报道称，朝鲜用防空武器处决了五名安全官员，原因可能是他们未能阻止美国通过网络攻击干扰其导弹试验。
Last summer, Thae Yong-ho, the No. 2 diplomat at the North Korean Embassy in London, arrived in the South with his family, saying he wanted to escape the threat of execution and to give his two sons a better future in South Korea.
去年夏天，朝鲜驻伦敦大使馆二号外交官太勇浩（Thae Yong-ho）携家人抵达韩国，称他想摆脱被处决的威胁，并在韩国给两个儿子更好的未来。
In 1983, a North Korean military pilot named Lee Woong-pyung fled to the South with his MiG-19 fighter jet, breaching the heavily guarded border between the two Koreas.
1983年，一个名叫李雄平(Lee Woong-pyung)的朝鲜军事飞行员驾驶一架米格-19战斗机，冲破重兵把守的朝韩边境逃至韩国。
Today, almost all defectors from the totalitarian North flee through its border with China, though Mr. Kim has taken steps to tighten that border in the five years since he took power.
如今，几乎所有逃离极权统治下的朝鲜的脱北者，都是通过该国与中国的边境逃亡的，尽管金正恩已在上台后的五年里采取多项措施，加紧对那一段边境的控制。
The number of North Korean defectors arriving in the South, which peaked with 2,914 in 2009, dropped to 1,418 last year.
抵达韩国的脱北者人数在2009年达到顶峰，为2914人。去年，这个数字跌至1418。
Their trip can be costly, running into the thousands of dollars.
他们一路上的花费可能会高达数千美元。
As it became more risky to cross the border into China, North Korean border guards demanded bigger bribes in return for letting people slip through, according to human rights activists who help defectors.
据为脱北者提供帮助的人权活动人士称，随着越境进入中国的风险增加，朝鲜边防警卫在允许人们悄然越境时索要的贿赂也增加了。
Once in China, defectors have to pay smugglers to take them to countries like Laos and Thailand, where they can seek asylum in the South Korean Embassy.
一旦进入中国，脱北者必须出钱让蛇头把自己带去老挝和泰国等国家。在那些国家，他们可以在韩国大使馆寻求避难。
If they are caught in China and repatriated, they could face a long stretch in a prison camp or worse.
如果在中国被抓并被遣返，他们可能面临在拘禁营里度过很长一段时间或更糟的后果。
Many spend months and even years in China as illegal migrants to raise the cash they need to make the trip to the South.
很多人要以非法移民的身份在中国停留数月甚至数年，以筹集前往韩国所需的资金。
More than 70 percent of the defectors who make it to the South are women.
抵达韩国的脱北者中，女性的比例超过70%。
Defectors who have settled in the South often pay smugglers to help bring their relatives from the North.
在韩国安定下来的脱北者常会付钱让蛇头帮他们把亲人从朝鲜带出来。
Some smugglers also collect their fees after the defectors arrive in the South and start earning wages.
一些蛇头也会在脱北者抵达韩国并开始挣工资后再收取费用。