SEOUL, South Korea — The eldest son of the South Korean business mogul who controlled the company that ran the Sewol ferry, which sank in April, leaving more than 300 people dead, was convicted of embezzlement on Wednesday and sentenced to three years in prison.
韩国首尔——控制着“世越号”渡轮运营方的企业大亨的长子俞大均（Yoo Dae-kyoon，音译），周三因贪污罪被判处三年监禁。“世越号”渡轮今年4月沉没，导致超过300人死亡。
The son, Yoo Dae-kyoon, 43, was convicted of taking nearly $6.8 million since 2002 from seven companies controlled by his family, including Chonghaejin Marine Company, which operated the Sewol ferry. Mr. Yoo’s father, Yoo Byung-eun, was a fugitive facing similar embezzlement charges when he was found dead in July.
法庭认定现年43岁的俞大均自2002年以来，从其家族控制的七家企业取得了将近680万美元资金（约合4157.6万元人民币），其中包括运营“世越号”（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）渡轮的清海镇海运公司(Chonghaejin Marine Company)。俞大均的父亲俞炳彦(Yoo Byung-eun)也受到了类似的贪污指控，但后者已在逃跑过程中身亡。
The sinking of the Sewol on April 16, in waters off southwest South Korea, was the country’s worst disaster in decades. Most of those killed were high school students on a field trip. The authorities accused members of the Yoo family of stealing the equivalent of millions of dollars from the Chonghaejin ferry company alone, money they said could have been used for safety measures that were not put in place on the Sewol.
“世越号”今年4月16日在韩国西南部海域沉没，酿成了该国数十年来最严重的一起灾难，遇难者多数是集体旅游的高中生。官方指控俞炳彦及其家族成员，单单在清海镇一家公司就侵吞了相当于数百万美元的资金，官方表示这些钱本可以用来弥补“世越号”上缺失的安全防护措施。
Prosecutors also said that the ferry operator had overloaded its ships, including the Sewol, in part to help make up for the losses incurred by the family’s embezzlement. Investigators said the Sewol was carrying twice as much cargo as it was allowed.
检方表示，这家渡轮经营企业会让船只超载，“世越号”也不例外，部分目的在于，填补因为俞氏家族侵吞资产而造成的损失。调查人员表示，世越号当时装载的货物是允许上限的两倍。
Yoo Dae-kyoon “abused his status as a son” of his charismatic father to embezzle the money, a court in Incheon, a port city west of Seoul, said in its ruling on Wednesday.
在首尔以西的港口城市仁川，一家法院在周三做出的判决中表示，俞大均“滥用了作为儿子的地位”侵吞资金。
Prosecutors said members of the Yoo family, along with their deceased patriarch, embezzled $169 million from a church that Yoo Byung-eun helped found and from a fleet of companies, including Chonghaejin, that were run with the use of church funds and with loyal church members installed as business executives.
检方表示，俞氏家族及其已故的颇具人格魅力的大家长俞炳彦，从后者帮助建立的教会，以及包括清海镇在内的一系列企业，侵吞了1.69亿美元资金。这些企业是用教会的资金创立的，由一些忠诚的教会成员担任高管，从而受到控制。
Two of Yoo Byung-eun’s brothers were also convicted of embezzlement on Wednesday. One, Yoo Byung-il, who was convicted of taking $119,000 from Chonghaejin, received a suspended sentence. The other, Yoo Byung-ho, was sentenced to two years in prison for taking $2.7 million from another family-controlled company. Thirteen executives from companies controlled by the family were convicted of aiding in the embezzlement, with four sentenced to prison terms of two to four years and the others receiving suspended sentences.
俞炳彦的两个兄弟周三也被判贪污罪成立。俞炳日（Yoo Byung-il，音译）因从清海镇侵吞11.9万美元，而被判处有期徒刑缓期执行。另一名兄弟俞炳豪（Yoo Byung-ho，音译）因为从另一家由其家族控制的企业侵吞270万美元，而被判处两年监禁。俞氏家族控制企业的十三名高管被判处协助贪污，其中四人被判处两年到四年监禁，其他人则获得缓刑。
A daughter of Yoo Byung-eun, Yoo Some-na, was arrested in Paris in May and is fighting extradition to South Korea. The South Korean authorities have asked the United States Justice Department for help in apprehending another son, Keith H. Yoo, who they say lives in America.
俞炳彦的女儿俞纤娜（Yoo Some-na，音译）今年5月在巴黎被捕，现在正努力避免被引渡到韩国。韩国官方称，俞炳彦的另一个儿子俞赫基（Keith H. Yoo，音译）居住在美国，并已经请求美国司法部协助逮捕。