SEOUL, South Korea — At a time when South Korea is struggling to deter North Korea’s nuclear threats, human rights advocates say its military is targeting gay soldiers in its ranks.
韩国首尔——就在韩国努力遏制朝鲜核威胁的同时，人权倡导者说，该国军队正将矛头对准自己的男同性恋士兵。
In recent weeks, the army has focused on dozens of those soldiers in what rights groups say is a campaign against gay men in the 620,000-member military. At least 32 faced criminal charges of “sodomy or other disgraceful conduct,” according to the domestic news media and lawyers and rights advocates familiar with the cases.
最近几个星期以来，这支拥有62万人的军队对自己的数十名士兵进行重点关注，权利团体说，这是一场针对男同性恋者的运动。根据国内新闻媒体，以及熟悉案件的律师和权利倡导者，至少有32人面临“进行肛交或其他可耻行为”的刑事指控。
On Tuesday night, the issue of gay rights became a focus in South Korea’s presidential race, when the candidate who leads in the polls, Moon Jae-in, joined another contender in saying that he opposed homosexuality. Critics said the statement was a stark tactic to win support among conservative voters.
周二晚上，同性恋权利问题成为韩国总统竞选中的焦点，民调领先的候选人文在寅(Moon Jae-in)和另一位候选人一样，声称自己反对同性恋。评论家说，这个声明是一种赤裸裸的策略，旨在赢得保守选民支持。
In South Korea, the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are a largely taboo and politically unpopular subject. In recent years, powerful right-wing Christian groups have intensified a campaign against homosexuality, scuttling a bill that would have given sexual minorities the same protection as other minorities.
在韩国，男女同性恋、双性恋和跨性别者的权利在很大程度上是一种禁忌，在政治上也是不受欢迎的话题。近年来，强大的右翼基督教团体加紧了打击同性恋的运动，破坏了一项能令性少数团体得到与其他少数团体同样保护的法案。
“Our military remains stuck in a barbarian and medieval culture,” said Lim Tae-hoon, director of the Military Human Rights Center. “The investigators preyed upon gay soldiers’ vulnerability like a cat playing with a mouse.”
“我们的军队仍然停留在野蛮时代与中世纪的文化之中，”军人人权中心(Military Human Rights Center)主任林泰勋(Lim Tae-hoon)说。“调查人员像猫捉老鼠一样利用同性恋士兵的脆弱折磨他们。”
Mr. Moon made the comment during a debate in which the issue of the military’s treatment of gays was raised. Under the conscript system, all eligible men are required to serve about two years.
文在寅是在一场辩论中发出前述言论的，其中提到军中同性恋待遇问题。在现行征兵制度下，所有符合条件的男性必须服役约两年。
But the Military Criminal Act outlaws sodomy and other unspecified “disgraceful conduct” between servicemen, whether or not there is mutual consent and whether or not that conduct takes place in or outside the military compounds. Those found to have violated the act face up to two years in prison.
但《军事刑法案》认定军人之间进行肛交和其他不明确的“可耻行为”是非法的，不论彼此是否同意，也不论这类行为是否在军事基地之内发生。被发现违反这一法令的人面临最多两年的监禁。
The army declined to provide details of its investigation. It insisted that it was not cracking down on gay soldiers; instead it said that it was trying to root out sodomy and other homosexual activities, which right-wing Christian groups have called a growing blight on its readiness to fight North Korea’s 1.2 million-strong military.
军队拒绝提供调查细节。它坚称并未打击男同性恋士兵；而是声称正在努力铲除肛交和其他同性性活动，右派基督教团体声称，这些行为日益损害了韩国备战拥有120万士兵的强大朝鲜军队。
But in the past week, evidence has emerged to support the allegations by gay soldiers that investigators flouted the army’s own regulations on how to treat gay service members by preying upon the soldiers’ fear of shame and abuse if they are outed in the military. Analysts and veterans said bullying, hazing and sexual violence were chronic problems.
但是在过去一周，男同性恋士兵的指控得到愈来愈多的证据支持，他们声称，调查人员在对待男同性恋士兵时公然蔑视军队条例，利用这些士兵担心同行恋身份在军中曝光后蒙受耻辱、遭受虐待的恐惧感，对他们进行折磨。分析人员和退伍老兵说，霸凌、羞辱和性暴力是韩国军队中长期存在的问题。
In a series of telephone conversations secretly recorded in March and April, an army investigator warned a gay sergeant against seeking help from lawyers or the National Human Rights Commission. In one conversation, the investigator complained that another gay soldier refused to cooperate with the inquiry and wanted to hire a lawyer.
在3月和4月份被秘密录音的一系列电话通话中，一名军事调查员警告一个男同性恋中士，不要向律师或国家人权委员会(National Human Rights Commission)寻求帮助。在一次谈话中，调查人员抱怨说，另一位同性恋士兵拒绝在调查中合作，并希望聘请律师。
“If he hires a lawyer, that means he is outing himself,” the investigator says in the recording, uploaded to the website of the Military Human Rights Center for Korea, based in Seoul.
“如果他聘请律师，那就意味着他曝光自己的取向，”这个调查人员在录音中说，该录音被上传到总部位于首尔的韩国军人人权中心网站。
It is unknown how many gay soldiers were punished under the anti-sodomy law before the recent flurry of charges.
在最近的一连串事件之前，究竟有多少同性恋者根据反肛交法而遭到惩处，目前尚不清楚。
Gay soldiers said they feared that they were being scapegoated in the recent inquiry as part of an effort by the army to contain sexual abuse. In a survey of 671 veterans commissioned by the National Human Rights Commission in 2004, more than 15 percent said they had been sexually abused.
同性恋士兵们说，最近的调查是军队为遏制性虐待做出的努力之一，他们担心自己在其中被当做替罪羊。在国家人权委员会于2004年对671名退伍军人进行的调查中，超过15%的人表示曾经遭受性虐待。
Mr. Lim, the director of the Military Human Rights Center, said the inquiry also detracted from looming security concerns.
军人人权中心主任林泰勋说，调查也令人们从迫在眉睫的安全问题上分心。
“It’s time for our military to focus on how to deal with the North Korean threat, but by going after gay soldiers, it is actually shooting at its own troops,” Mr. Lim said. “They don’t seem to realize how grave our security situation is.”
“现在是我们的军队应当专注于应对朝鲜的威胁，但是对付同性恋士兵实际上就等于向自己的部队开火，”林泰勋说。“他们似乎没有意识到我们的安全局势有多么严峻。”
The crackdown began early this year when the army was tipped to a video clip on social media that showed a soldier and an officer, both men, having sex. The soldier was arrested on charges of violating the military criminal code, as well as a law against spreading obscene content online.
这场打击行动是从今年早些时候开始的，当时军队注意到社交媒体上的一段视频剪辑，内容是一名男性士兵与一名男性军官发生性关系。这名士兵遭到逮捕，被控违反军队刑事法规以及禁止在线传播淫秽内容的法律。
But the case did not end there.
但是这一案件并没有就此结束。
Using information they learned from the case, investigators expanded the inquiry. Army regulations ban discriminating against gay soldiers and forbid identifying or outing gay men or asking about their sexual experiences.
调查人员利用他们从这一案件中得到的信息扩大了调查。军队条例禁止歧视同性恋士兵，禁止确认男同性恋者的身份、要求他们曝光自己的取向、或询问他们的性经历。
But the investigators routinely asked gay soldiers questions about their sexual history and orientation, said Mr. Lim’s group, which is providing legal advice for 14 of the service members implicated in the case. They seized mobile phones without warrants and forced the men to identify gay soldiers on their contact lists and to confess to having sex with them. They also forced some to log onto dating apps to dupe other gay soldiers into revealing their identities, the group said.
但是，调查人员经常向同性恋士兵询问他们的性史，以及和性取向有关的问题，林泰勋的团队说，该组织正在为涉案的14名军人提供法律咨询。该组织称，这些调查人员在没有搜查令的情况下没收同性恋士兵的手机，强迫他们在自己的联络人名单中指认其他同性恋士兵，并承认曾与这些人发生性关系。他们还强迫一些人登录约会应用程序，欺骗其他同性恋士兵暴露自己的身份。
The army declined to respond to individual accusations by Mr. Lim’s group.
军方拒绝回应林泰勋的组织提出的各项指控。
But the army denied that its chief of staff, Gen. Jang Jun-kyu, ordered the crackdown. “The investigation is proceeding legally while protecting human rights and privacy,” it said.
但军方否认其总参谋长张骏圭(Jang Jun-kyu)将军曾下令进行这次镇压活动。“调查正在依法进行，同时保护人权和隐私权，”军方称。
Although South Korea has made strides in democratizing and improving basic rights in recent decades, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people have been largely left out, rights groups said.
尽管韩国近几十年来在民主化和改善基本权利方面取得了长足的进步，但权利团体表示，男女同性恋、双性恋和跨性别者仍在很大程度上遭受忽略。
South Korea does not recognize same-sex marriage. All major candidates for the presidential election in May have vowed to oppose it.
韩国不承认同性婚姻。5月份总统大选中的所有主要候选人都承诺反对同性婚姻。
After the Constitutional Court ruled in 2015 that adultery was no longer a crime, many churches seized on homosexuality as a vice to denounce, organizing rallies to counter gay-pride marches.
2015年，韩国宪法法院裁定通奸不再是犯罪行为，其后许多教会将同性性行为视为有伤风化，对之进行谴责，组织集会反对同志骄傲游行。
The Ministry of Education does not allow lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues to be part of sex education for students.
教育部不允许男女同性恋、双性恋和跨性别问题进入学生性教育内容。
“Our society has been busy erasing sexual minorities,” said Jeong Min-seok, the director of the DDingDong LGBTQ Youth Crisis Support Center.
“我们的社会一直在忙于抹去性少数群体，”DDingDong LGBTQ青少年危机支援中心主任(DDingDong LGBTQ Youth Crisis Support Center)负责人郑敏秀(Jeong Min-seok，音)表示。
And the military has been the least receptive.
军方则是最不乐于接受这个群体的地方。
In 1998, Mr. Jeong, then an army private, was sent to a military psychiatric ward after he was outed. He said he was forced to take tranquilizers and was separated from other inmates at night. Once he returned to his unit a month and a half later, it tried to ban him from conducting a nighttime guard-post duty with another soldier.
1998年，当时为陆军二等兵的郑敏秀在同性恋身份曝光后被送入军队的精神病房。他说自己被迫服用镇静剂，晚上与其他病人分开监管。一个半月之后，他返回自己的小队，该小队试图禁止他与另一名士兵共同在夜间站岗值勤。
In 2011, when a male and female officers were found having sex on duty, they were suspended for three months but not criminally charged. By contrast, all 18 gay service members identified by Mr. Lim’s group in the current investigation faced criminal charges, even though they had sex on leave or off duty.
2011年，一名男性军官与一名女性军官被发现在值勤时发生性关系，他们被停职三个月，但没有被追究刑事责任。相比之下，林泰勋的团队在本次调查中发现的所有18名男同性恋军人即使在休假或非值勤时期的性行为，都面临着刑事指控。
The Constitutional Court has repeatedly upheld the anti-sodomy code, giving more weight to the argument that it is necessary to fight sexual abuse and protect the discipline of an almost all-male military.
宪法法院一再支持反肛交法，强调它对于打击性虐待，在这个几乎全由男性组成的军队中维持纪律是有必要的。
“The problem is that the army is abusing the law to launch a systematic ferreting out of gay soldiers,” said Han Ga-ram, a human rights lawyer. “This is not that different from the Nazis’ roundup of homosexuals and the anti-gay crackdown in Chechnya.”
“问题是军队滥用这项法律，系统性地搜寻同性恋士兵，”人权律师韩加岚（Han Ga-ram,音）说。“这与纳粹对同性恋者的围剿，以及车臣的反同性恋镇压行为并没有什么不同。”
For months before the Constitutional Court gave its last ruling on the military criminal code, in July, conservatives rallied outside the courthouse, saying that abolishing the code would undermine the military’s ability to fight North Korea. Some warned against empowering “pro-North Korean gays.”
去年7月，宪法法院对这项军事刑事法规作出最终裁定的几个月之前，保守派在法院之外集会，声称废除该法规会削弱军方打击朝鲜的能力。有人警告说，不要助长“亲朝鲜的同性恋者”的气焰。
One of their banners said: “Who’s going to take responsibility if my son goes to the military and learns homosexuality?”
他们挂出的一面横幅上写着：“如果我儿子在军队里学会了搞同性恋，谁来负责？”