SEOUL, South Korea — A string of senior executives at three credit card companies in South Korea offered to resign on Monday after a huge theft of client data that may have affected 20 million people in this nation of 50 million.
韩国首尔——韩国三家信用卡公司的多名高管周一提出辞职，此前，这些公司的大量客户数据失窃，导致韩国2000万人受到影响。韩国总人口约为5000万。
The case became known this month when prosecutors arrested a 39-year-old technician hired by the Korea Credit Bureau, a ratings firm that the credit card companies had hired to help improve their systems to protect client data. It was subsequently disclosed that the man stole personal information on 104 million credit cards issued by the KB Financial Group, the NongHyup Financial Group and Lotte Card.
本月，检方逮捕了韩国信用评价公司（Korea Credit Bureau，简称KCB）一名39岁的技术人员之后，这起案件随之被曝光。韩国信用评价公司是一家评级公司，它受雇于这些信用卡公司，负责帮助后者改进系统，以保护客户数据。随后披露的信息显示，这名男子窃取了韩国国民银行金融集团(KB Financial Group)、农协金融控股公司(NongHyup Financial Group)和乐天信用卡(Lotte Card)发行的1.04亿张信用卡的用户个人信息。
The man, identified only his last name, Park, stole the data from May 2012 to December 2013, copying it onto a USB device, prosecutors said. The data included the names, phone and South Korean social security numbers, email and residential addresses, salaries, monthly card use and other credit-rating information of clients, the Financial Supervisory Service, a regulatory agency, said in a statement. In many cases, card numbers were stolen as well.
检方只透露该男子姓朴（Park，音译），并表示，朴某从2012年5月到2013年12月对数据实施了窃取，并将它们复制到了一个USB存储设备上。韩国监管机构金融监督院(Financial Supervisory Service)在一份声明中说，这些数据包括：用户姓名、电话号码、社保账号、电子邮箱、居住地址、收入状况、信用卡每月使用情况以及客户的其他信用评级信息。许多用户的信用卡号也被窃取。
Prosecutors have also indicted two phone marketing company managers on charges of buying the stolen data from the technician. Prosecutors said they found no evidence that the data had circulated any further, but fears spread that the information may have fallen into the hands of financial scammers.
检方还指控两名电话营销公司的经理从这名技术人员那里购买了这些数据。检方说，他们没有发现这些数据被进一步传播的证据，但很多人担心，这些信息可能已经落入金融诈骗者的手中。
“Personal information was leaked but hasn’t been distributed,” Shin Je-yoon, the chairman of the Financial Services Commission, the government’s top financial regulator, told reporters Monday. “I see people are really worried that the information leak could lead to misuse of their credit cards, but such chances are slim.”
韩国政府的最高金融监管机构、韩国金融服务委员会(Financial Services Commission)主席申齐润(Shin Je-yoon)周一对记者说，“虽然一些个人信息遭到泄露，但还没有被散播。我知道，人们非常担心信息泄露可能导致他们的信用卡被用于非法途径，但这种可能性微乎其微。”
Still, angry clients were rushing to bank branches or flooding the card companies’ call centers and websites with inquiries on whether their data had been stolen. Some demanded new cards. On Monday, lawyers and civic groups were announcing lawsuits against the three firms.
尽管如此，仍然有大量愤怒的客户涌到银行的分支机构，或者联系信用卡公司的呼叫中心以及登陆其网站，询问自己的数据是否被窃取。一些人要求更换新卡。周一，一些律师和民间团体宣布起诉这三家公司。
The trouble was severe enough to force the government to take steps to try to ease the jitters. Prime Minister Chung Hong-won ordered the government on Monday to “significantly boost punishment” for those responsible.
这起案件的严重性迫使政府不得不采取行动来平息恐慌情绪。总理郑烘原(Chung Hong-won)周一要求政府对责任人“进行更加严厉的处罚”。
Later in the day, the heads of the three credit card companies appeared in a joint news conference, bowing before television cameras and promising compensation for any possible financial losses to customers.
当天晚些时候，三家信用卡公司的负责人在一个联合新闻发布会上露面，面对摄像机镜头鞠躬致歉，承诺赔偿客户任何可能出现的经济损失。
But the political mood further soured later in the day, as Mr. Shin, the top regulator, bowed before lawmakers for failing to prevent the theft. By Monday afternoon, senior executives of the credit companies began handing in their resignations.
但当天晚些时候，政治情绪愈加紧张，由于未能阻止盗窃事件的发生，负责监管事务的最高官员申齐润也在议员面前鞠躬道歉。周一下午，这些信用卡公司的高管开始递交辞呈。
South Korea, one of the world’s most wired nations, has been one of its most prolific issuers of credit cards. The government has encouraged the use of credit cards to fight corruption, a bane of the country’s corporate world, by making financial transactions easier to trace. Many people hold multiple credit cards.
韩国是全球网络化程度最高的国家之一，也是世界上发行信用卡数量最多的国家之一。韩国政府鼓励使用信用卡，从而更容易追踪金融交易，进而打击腐败。腐败是韩国企业界的一个顽疾。许多人持有多张信用卡。
A South Korean citizen can virtually live without carrying any cash. Every taxi, bus, bar, newsstand and restaurant takes credit cards.
韩国人可以真正做到不带任何现金生活。出租车、巴士、酒吧、报摊和饭店都可以刷卡。
But the country’s financial industry has also been plagued by a series of large-scale breaches of client information through hacking attacks or by their own employees, exposing how poorly local companies managed their confidential customer data.
但韩国的金融业已经受到了一系列大规模客户信息盗窃事件的困扰，包括通过黑客攻击，以及由本公司员工实施的盗窃。这暴露出韩国公司对机密用户数据的管理漏洞百出。
In the world of cybersecurity, external threats have been considered the greater risk and traditional security defenses have focused on them. Antivirus solutions and firewalls were considered sufficient to keep outsiders from breaking into organizations. But now, with employees carting corporate data around with them on their personal mobile devices and storing proprietary data on their personal Dropbox and Google accounts, the risk of data loss from insiders is much greater. A new set of data security products is trying to protect data from insiders as well.
在网络安全领域，外部威胁已经被视作更大的风险，传统的安全防御手段已经开始针对这些风险。人们曾以为，杀毒软件和防火墙就足以防止外部力量侵入内部网络。但如今，公司员工可以在个人移动设备上携带公司数据，或者在个人的Dropbox和谷歌账户中存储专有数据，因此，数据从内部人士那里丢失的可能性要大得多。一系列新的数据安全产品正在试图保护数据不会被内部人士泄露。
Security companies like Imperva, which is based in Redwood Shores, Calif., wrap additional security around valuable assets inside corporate and government data centers. Other companies like Splunk, a San Francisco software company, and Sumo Logic, a Redwood City, Calif., company, analyze data as it moves around an organization, looking for patterns and recognizing anomalies — like an employee’s transfer of unusually large troves of information from a corporate database — so they can alert information technology professionals to red flags in real time.
在企业和政府数据中心内部，Imperva等数据安全公司可以为有价值的资产提供额外的保护。Imperva公司总部位于加州红木海岸。另外的一些公司，比如旧金山软件公司Splunk以及加州红木城的Sumo Logic，则可以分析数据在机构内的流动情况，寻找数据移动模式，发现其中的异常——比如一名雇员将大量信息从企业数据库中转移出去——从而向信息技术专业人员实时发出警告。
Still, security measures have to be used to be effective. South Korean regulators told reporters on Monday that the stolen data from the three credit card companies was not encrypted.
尽管如此，这些措施起效的前提，是人们实施这些措施。韩国监管机构周一对记者说，这三家信用卡公司的被盗数据没有被加密。