SEOUL, South Korea —WHEN she published her book about Korean “comfort women” in 2013, Park Yu-ha wrote that she felt “a bit fearful” of how it might be received.
韩国首尔——2013年出版关于韩国慰安妇的著作时，朴裕河(Park Yu-ha)写道，自己“有点担心”公众对这本书的反应。
After all, she said, it challenged “the common knowledge” about the wartime sex slaves.
她说，毕竟，这本书挑战了关于战时充当性奴的慰安妇的“常识”。
But even she was not prepared for the severity of the backlash.
但即使如此，她也没有想到公众的反对会如此强烈。
In February, a South Korean court ordered Ms. Park’s book, “Comfort Women of the Empire,” redacted in 34 sections where it found her guilty of defaming former comfort women with false facts. Ms. Park is also on trial on the criminal charge of defaming the aging women, widely accepted here as an inviolable symbol of Korea’s suffering under colonial rule by Japan and its need for historical justice, and she is being sued for defamation by some of the women themselves.
今年2月，韩国法院裁定朴裕河在书中捏造事实，诽谤过去的慰安妇，下令删减其著作《帝国的慰安妇》(Comfort Women of the Empire)中的34处文字。朴裕河也面临着诽谤这些年迈妇人的刑事指控，这些老妪被广泛视为不可侵犯的象征，代表着韩国在日本殖民统治下所受的苦难，以及为这段历史伸张正义的需要。她还被一些前慰安妇本人控告诽谤。
The women have called for Ms. Park’s expulsion from Sejong University in Seoul, where she is a professor of Japanese literature. Other researchers say she is an apologist for Japan’s war crimes. On social media, she has been vilified as a “pro-Japanese traitor.”
这些妇女要求在韩国首尔的世宗大学(Sejong University)开除在该校担任日本文学教授的朴裕河。其他研究人员说，她是在为日本的战争罪行辩护。在社交媒体上，她被诬蔑成“亲日的卖国贼”。
“They do not want you to see other aspects of the comfort women,” the soft-spoken Ms. Park said during a recent interview at a quiet street-corner cafe run by one of her supporters. “If you do, they think you are diluting the issue, giving Japan indulgence.”
“他们不想让你看到慰安妇的其他方面，”在街角一间由一名支持者经营的安静咖啡馆里，朴裕河最近在受访时语调轻柔地说。“如果你这样做，他们便认为你是在淡化问题，纵容日本。”
The issue of the comfort women has long been controversial, and it is difficult to determine if the version of events put forward by Ms. Park — who critics say is nothing more than a mouthpiece for Japan — is any more correct than many others that have been offered over the years. Yet, for decades, the common knowledge Ms. Park is challenging has remained as firm among Koreans as their animosity toward their island neighbor.
慰安妇问题长久以来一直存在争议，也很难判断朴裕河讲述的版本，是否比多年来其他许多人给出的版本更加正确——批评者说，朴裕河只是日本政府的喉舌。然而，朴裕河现在正在挑战的常识，几十年来一直与对邻近岛国日本的敌意一样，在韩国人的头脑中根深蒂固。
In the early 20th century, the official history holds, Japan forcibly took innocent girls from Korea and elsewhere to its military-run brothels. There, they were held as sex slaves and defiled by dozens of soldiers a day in the most hateful legacy of Japan’s 35-year colonial rule, which ended with its defeat in World War II.
官方历史认为，在20世纪初，日本把无辜妇女强行从韩国和其他地方，带到其军方经营的妓院中。在那里，她们作为性奴被关押起来，每天被数十名士兵奸污。这是在日本历时35年的殖民统治中最为人憎恶的遗留问题。日本在二战中战败后，其殖民统治结束。
As she researched her book, combing through a rich archive in South Korea and Japan and interviewing surviving comfort women, Ms. Park, 58, said she came to realize that such a sanitized, uniform image of Korean comfort women did not fully explain who they were and only deepened this most emotional of the many disputes between South Korea and Japan.
在为书本搜集资料的过程中，58岁的朴裕河梳理了大量韩国和日本档案，采访了幸存的慰安妇。她说自己意识到，这样一个经过美化的、统一的韩国慰安妇形象，并不能完全说明她们是谁，而只会加剧韩日两国间诸多争议中最牵动情绪的问题。
In trying to give what she calls a more comprehensive view of the women’s lives, she made claims that some found refreshing but many considered outrageous and, in some cases, traitorous.
关于这些妇女的人生，朴裕河试图向大众提供一种她所说的更全面的理解。有些人认为她提出的观点让人耳目一新，但是许多人认为她的论述很离谱，甚至有人认为是卖国。
In her book, she emphasized that it was profiteering Korean collaborators, as well as private Japanese recruiters, who forced or lured women into the “comfort stations,” where life included both rape and prostitution. There is no evidence, she wrote, that the Japanese government was officially involved in, and therefore legally responsible for, coercing Korean women.
在书中，她强调威逼利诱妇女进入“慰安所”的，是韩国的投机通敌者和日本的私人招聘人。在慰安所中，她们的日常生活包括了被强奸和卖淫。她写道，没有证据显示日本政府正式参与其中，因此不能证明政府须为强迫韩国妇女承担法律责任。
Although often brutalized in a “slavelike condition” in their brothels, Ms. Park added, the women from the Japanese colonies of Korea and Taiwan were also treated as citizens of the empire and were expected to consider their service patriotic. They forged a “comradelike relationship” with the Japanese soldiers and sometimes fell in love with them, she wrote. She cited cases where Japanese soldiers took loving care of sick women and even returned those who did not want to become prostitutes.
尽管慰安妇常在“奴隶般的状况”中，在妓院里遭到残酷对待，但朴裕河补充说，来自韩国和台湾等日本殖民地的妇女，也会受到日本帝国公民一般的对待，还被认为要把自己的服务视为爱国行为。她写道，她们和日本士兵建立了一种“战友般的关系”，有时候还会爱上他们。她列举了数个案例，其中日本士兵对生病的慰安妇关怀备至，他们甚至把不愿卖淫的妇女遣送回国。
The book sold only a few thousand copies. But it set off an outsize controversy.
这书只卖出了几千册，但它掀起了一轮异常激烈的争议。
“Her case shows how difficult it has become in South Korea to challenge the conventional wisdom about comfort women,” said Kim Gyu-hang, a social critic.
社会批评家金圭恒（Kim Gyu-hang，音）说：“她的个案反映出，要在韩国挑战有关慰安妇的惯常思路，是十分困难的。”
Ms. Park’s book, published in Japan last year, won awards there. Last month, 54 intellectuals from Japan and the United States issued a statement criticizing South Korean prosecutors for “suppressing the freedom of scholarship and press.” Among them was a former chief cabinet secretary in Japan, Yohei Kono, who issued a landmark apology in 1993 admitting coercion in the recruitment of comfort women.
朴裕河的书去年在日本出版，并在那里获得多个奖项。上个月，来自日本和美国的54名知识分子发表声明，批评韩国检察机关“打压学术和新闻自由”。其中一人是日本前内阁官房长官，河野洋平(Yohei Kono)。他于1993年公开致歉承认强制征募慰安妇，该道歉具有历史意义。
Even then, however, Mr. Kono noted that the recruiting had been conducted mainly by private agents working at the request of the Japanese military, and by administrative and military personnel. For outraged South Koreans, the caveats rendered the apology useless.
但河野洋平当时就指出，征募慰安妇的举动主要是私人代理在日本军方的要求下做出的，行政和军方人员也参与其中。对于愤怒的韩国民众来说，他这种留有余地的表态，让道歉显得毫无意义。
This month, 190 South Korean scholars and cultural figures issued a statement supporting what Ms. Park had tried to do in her book, if not everything written in it. They called her indictment an “anachronistic” attempt to “keep public opinion on comfort women under state control.”
这个月，190名韩国学者和文化界人士发表声明，支持朴裕河在书中的观点——尽管并非支持书中的所有内容。他们称，对朴裕河的起诉是“国家企图控制对慰安妇的舆论”，这种做法已经“过时”了。
But others said the talk of academic freedom missed the main point of the backlash. This month, 380 scholars and activists from South Korea, Japan and elsewhere accused Ms. Park of “exposing a serious neglect of legal understanding” and avoiding the “essence” of the issue: Japan’s state responsibility.
但也有人说，妨碍学术自由的说法，并没有反映朴裕河的书遭到反对的主要原因。这个月，380名学者和活动人士从韩国、日本及其他国家指责朴裕河“严重欠缺法律认知”，而且回避了“本质”问题：日本的国家责任。
Their statement maintained that state agencies of Japan, like its military, were involved in the “hideous crime” of coercing tens of thousands of women into sexual slavery, a view shared by two United Nations special rapporteurs in the 1990s.
他们的声明认为，日本的国家机构，如军方，参与了胁迫数以万计的妇女充当性奴的这个“丑恶罪行”。90年代的两位联合国特别报告员也同意这个观点。
Yang Hyun-ah, a professor at the Seoul National University School of Law, said that Ms. Park’s most egregious mistake was to “generalize selectively chosen details from the women’s lives.”
韩国首尔大学(Seoul National University)法学院教授梁铉娥(Yang Hyun-ah)说，朴裕河最严重的错误在于“选择性地截取这些女性生活中的细节，并以此得出普遍的概括”。
“I wish her expelled from the country,” said Yoo Hee-nam, 87, one of the nine former comfort women who sued Ms. Park, shaking her walking stick during a news conference.
起诉朴裕河的九名前慰安妇之一，87岁的柳喜男(Yoo Hee-nam)在新闻发布会上摇晃着拐杖说：“我希望把她驱逐出境。”
Ms. Park said she had tried to broaden discussions by investigating the roles that patriarchal societies, statism and poverty played in the recruitment of comfort women. She said that unlike women rounded up as spoils of battle in conquered territories like China, those from the Korean colony had been taken to the comfort stations in much the same way poor women today enter prostitution.
朴裕河说，她试图扩大讨论，研究父权社会、中央集权和贫困在慰安妇招募中扮演的角色。她说，在中国等被征服的领土，女性是作为战利品被搜罗来的；不像她们，来自朝鲜半岛殖民地的女性被带到慰安所的方式，与今天贫困妇女卖淫大致相同。
She also compared the Korean comfort women to more recent Korean prostitutes who followed American soldiers into their winter field exercises in South Korea in the 1960s through ’80s. (The “blanket corps,” so called because the women often carried blankets under their arms, followed pimps searching for American troops through snowy hills or built field brothels with tents as the Americans lined up outside, according to former prostitutes for the United States military.)
她还比较了韩国慰安妇与后来的韩国妓女。从1960年代到1980年代，她们跟随在韩国的美国士兵，一同前去冬季实地演练的地点。（因为这些妓女往往抱着毯子，所以她们被称作“毯子军团”[blanket corps]。曾为美军服务的妓女透露，她们会跟随皮条客翻越积雪的山丘寻找美军，或在演练场搭起帐篷，当成妓院接待在外面排队的美军。）
“Korean comfort women were victims, but they were also collaborators as people from a colony,” Ms. Park wrote in one of the redacted sentences in her book.
朴裕河书中一段被删去的文字写道：“韩国慰安妇是受害者，但她们作为殖民地人民，也是合作者。”
But she added that even if the Japanese government did not directly order the women’s forced recruitment and some Korean women joined comfort stations voluntarily, the government should still be held responsible for the “sin” of creating the colonial structure that allowed it to happen.
但她补充说，即使日本政府没有直接下令强征妇女，而一些韩国妇女是自愿充当慰安妇，日本政府仍应负责，其“罪行”在于建立了允许这种恶行发生的殖民体系。