SEOUL, South Korea — After all the lavish galas in his honor at landmarks like the Louvre and Versailles, the tens of thousands of devotees following his religious teachings for decades, the hundreds of homes and businesses reportedly stashed around the globe, Yoo Byung-eun ended up alone, his body splayed on its back and rotting in the weeds, empty liquor bottles by his side.
韩国首尔——俞炳彦(Yoo Byung-eun)曾在卢浮宫和凡尔赛宫等著名场所得到过隆重介绍。几十年来，有数以万计的信徒追随他的宗教教义，而且据说他在全球各地拥有数百处房产和生意，但最终他孤独地死去，仰面朝天地躺在杂草中的尸体已经腐烂，旁边有一些空酒瓶。
Weeks before, nearly 10,000 police officers had raided his church’s compound in the largest manhunt in South Korean history, armed with backhoes to dig up underground hiding places, only to leave empty-handed. They had almost caught him once, it turned out, but Mr. Yoo slipped away, hiding in a secret room behind a wall in a distant villa, almost $1 million in two suitcases at the ready.
数周前，在韩国历史上最大的搜捕行动中，近1万名警察搜查了他的教会大楼，还用挖掘机挖开了几处地下藏身所，结果却空手而归。事实上，有一次他们几乎抓住了他，但俞炳彦却溜走了；当时是在一座远离市区的别墅里，他躲在墙后的一间密室内，带着已经准备好的两个手提箱，里面装着近100万美元（约合610万元人民币）。
After a lifetime of craving recognition, of building a flock that showered him with cash and helped fund a business empire selling everything from toys to ships, Mr. Yoo found his moneymaking machine brought more than his own undoing, prosecutors say. It also contributed to one of the worst peacetime disasters in the nation’s history — the sinking of the ferry Sewol in April, which killed 304 passengers, the vast majority of them high school students.
俞炳彦一生沽名钓誉，吸引了一批忠实信徒，这些信徒为他奉上大量现金，帮助他建立了一个商业帝国，出售从玩具到船舶的各种东西，检察机关透露。结果他发现自己的赚钱机器，带来的不仅仅是他本人的灭亡，还导致了韩国历史上和平时期最严重的灾难之一：今年4月“世越号”（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）渡轮沉没，304名乘客罹难，其中绝大多数高中生。
Millions of dollars from the web of companies, including the one that owns the ferry, went to Mr. Yoo, 73, and his two sons, prosecutors say, squeezed from the business through an increasingly perilous set of decisions that enriched his family at the expense of the passengers.
检察官说，通过在经营中做出一系列隐患重重的决定，73岁的俞炳彦和他的两个儿子，从拥有这艘渡轮的公司及其他企业中榨取了数百万美元，罔顾乘客的安危，为自己的家人谋利。
Scores of cabins and even an art gallery laden with marble were added to the ferry’s upper decks, making the ship top-heavy. So much extra cargo was crammed on board that there was sometimes no space to secure it properly with chains and lashings. And, prosecutors say, the ferry’s crucial ballast water, needed to balance all the additional weight, was deliberately drained so that the vessel would not sit too low — a telltale sign to inspectors that the ferry was dangerously overloaded to bring in more money.
“世越号”的甲板上添加了数十个船舱，甚至还有一个铺了大理石的画廊，让这艘船变得头重脚轻。穿上塞满了大量额外货物，有时连用铁链和绳索妥善固定的空间都没有。而且，检察官说，渡轮用来平衡额外重量的压载水非常重要，“世越号”为了赚更多的钱，却故意把压载水倒掉，这样船的吃水就不会过深，检查人员也就看不出它的超载隐患了。
“It was a miracle that the ship actually sailed as far as it did; it could have tipped over any time,” said Kim Woo-sook, dean of the graduate school at Mokpo National Maritime University. “For them, cargo was cash.”
“它竟然这样航行了一阵子，这已经是奇迹了，因为它随时都可能翻倒，”木浦海洋大学(Mokpo National Maritime University)研究生院院长金宇孰（Kim Woo-sook，音译）说。“对于他们来说，货物就是钱。”
Few events in recent memory have rattled South Korea more deeply than the sinking of the ferry, a disaster captured in haunting text messages and cellphone videos from students as the ship slipped into the Yellow Sea.
最近几十年来，几乎没有什么事件能比这艘渡轮的沉没更令韩国深受震动了。在它沉入黄海的过程中，困在船中的学生用短信和手机视摄记录下了这场灾难。
As the ferry first started tilting, some students did not yet grasp the danger, shouting, “This is fun!” and joking about posting the event on Facebook. But as the ship listed farther, panic spread, with students yelling, “We don’t want to die!” and recording hurried goodbyes to their parents.
渡轮刚开始倾斜时，一些学生还没有意识到危险的到来，他们大喊，“太好玩了！”还开玩笑说要把这事发在Facebook上。但是随着船体继续倾斜，恐慌情绪开始蔓延，一些学生大喊，“我们不想死！”并匆匆录下了对父母的道别。
“This looks like the end,” one boy shouted into a smartphone, before another cut in: “Mom, Dad, I love you.”
一个男孩对着智能手机喊道，“这好像就是永别了。”另一个男孩上来插嘴喊到：“妈妈、爸爸，我爱你们。”
Reinventing a Swindler
曾经的骗子
Such scenes reverberated around the world. Since then, scores of people have been arrested in connection with the sinking, including regulators, the captain, officers and members of the crew. But at the heart of the tragedy, and the investigation into how it happened, sits one of the nation’s most eccentric, and now reviled, families.
这样的场景在世界各地激起强烈反响。自那之后，已经有数十人因为沉船事件遭到逮捕，包括监管者、船长、船副和船员。但在这起悲剧，及围绕事件起因展开的调查中，处在核心位置的却是韩国最为古怪的家族之一，现在他们也成为了最受人唾骂的家族。
“The Yoo Byung-eun family, which is the root cause of this calamity, is inviting the ire of the people by flouting the law rather than repenting before the people and helping reveal the truth,” said President Park Geun-hye, who has also been widely criticized for her government’s failure to prevent the disaster, much less find Mr. Yoo before his death. His wife and two of his four children are now in custody, and one son remains at large.
“俞炳彦家族是引起这场灾难的根本原因，他们藐视法律，而不是在大家面前悔过，并帮助揭露真相，这引发了公众的怒火，”韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)说。她本人也因为此事遭到了广泛批评，因为她的政府未能防止灾难的发生，也没能在俞炳彦死亡之前找到他。俞炳彦的妻子和两个孩子现在已被羁押，还有一个儿子仍然在逃；他共有四个孩子。
The Yoo family’s representatives did not provide answers to questions about the disaster, their businesses or their church. Many church members have said, however, that Ms. Park is trying to demonize the Yoos to deflect criticism from her government. But dozens of interviews with regulators, Coast Guard officials, prosecutors, dockworkers, crew members and family business associates seem to confirm the prosecutors’ contention that the Yoo family played a crucial role in the tragedy by cutting corners on the ferry’s safety, even as it was spending lavishly on itself.
关于这起灾难、俞炳彦家族生意以及教会的问题，该家族的代表并没有予以回应。然而有很多教友表示，朴槿惠正试图妖魔化俞炳彦家族，以便转移其政府遭受的批评。但对监管者、海岸警卫队官员、检察官、码头工人、船员和俞炳彦家族的生意伙伴进行的几十个采访，似乎都印证了检察官的观点，即俞炳彦家族在这起悲剧中扮演了至关重要的角色：他们虽然在自己身上大把花钱，却在“世越号”的安全方面偷工减料。
The family used a sprawling group of at least 70 companies on three continents as a personal A.T.M., prosecutors say. In their own names or through companies that they control, family members own at least $8 million worth of real estate in the United States alone, including a condominium at the Ritz Carlton in Manhattan, and have the rights to be an American distributor of Debauve & Gallais, the French maker of luxury chocolates once favored by Marie Antoinette. In France, they own an entire hilltop village.
这家人把一个至少包含70家公司、遍布三个大洲的庞大企业集团当成了自家的提款机，检察官说。该家族自己名下，或家族控制的公司名下，仅在美国就至少拥有价值800万美元的房地产，其中包括曼哈顿丽思卡尔顿酒店(Ritz Carlton)里的一套共管公寓；而且他们还拥有法国巧克力制造商黛堡嘉莱(Debauve & Gallais)在美国的代理权，黛堡嘉莱生产的高级巧克力曾经是玛丽·安托瓦内特(Marie Antoinette)的最爱。在法国，这个家族还拥用一座山顶上的整个村子。
The family also spent tens of millions of dollars to lionize Mr. Yoo, a convicted swindler known best in South Korea in connection with the mass suicide of 32 members of a splinter group of his church more than two decades ago.
该家族还耗资数千万美元来吹捧俞炳彦，其实他在韩国最出名的身份是个被判刑的骗子，因为20多年前，从他的教会分裂出的一个派别，有32名成员集体自杀。
In one of their more damning findings, prosecutors say that so much money was being siphoned away from the ferry company to Mr. Yoo and his relatives that it was starved of funds and spent just $2 last year on safety training for the Sewol’s crew members. The money went to buy a paper copy of a certificate.
检察官说，更确凿的发现之一，是俞炳彦和他的亲戚侵吞了这家轮渡公司的大量钱财，因此该公司资金短缺，去年只花了2美元在“世越号”船员的安全培训上，具体是用来购买了一份证书的纸质副本。
During the accident, the chaos caused by the lack of training was clear. Some crew members readily admitted in interviews after the disaster that they had no idea what to do during the emergency, had never done evacuation drills and made fatal mistakes like repeatedly telling passengers over the intercom to “stay inside and wait” as the ship began to sink, dragging scores of students down with it.
在事故发生的过程中，由于缺乏培训而导致的混乱显而易见。一些船员在灾难发生后的采访中也坦率承认，他们根本不知道在紧急情况下应该怎么做，他们从来没有进行过疏散演习，因此在这起事故中犯下了致命错误，比如在船已经带着大量学生开始下沉的时候，还在广播里反复告诉乘客“留在舱里，耐心等待”。
The ferry company was able to cut corners so dangerously because South Korea’s system for regulating ferries — like so much of regulation in South Korea — is based on trust, riddled with loopholes, manpower shortages, petty corruption and a reliance on businesses to police themselves. The broad, tacit acceptance of lax safety standards to keep the economy humming has been blamed for everything from building collapses to a nuclear energy scandal over fudged testing results that has raised serious questions about the safety of the country’s 23 reactors.
这家渡轮公司能够以如此危险的方式偷工减料，是因为韩国的渡轮监管体系就像该国的其他很多监管体系一样，是建立在信任的基础上的，充满漏洞、人手短缺，腐败滋生，有赖于企业的自我监督。监管机构广泛地、心照不宣地接受了松散的安全规则，希望保持经济增长，结果从多起建筑物倒塌到一起核能丑闻的发生，种种事故让它饱受指责；那起核能丑闻和捏造试验结果有关，导致韩国23个反应堆在安全上遭到严重质疑。
Public outrage since the ferry accident has pushed President Park to vow to strengthen safety standards by rooting out what she called “layers of corruption,” including collusive ties between regulators and businesses.
“世越号”事故引发的众怒，迫使朴槿惠总统立誓要加强安全标准，铲除她所说的“重重腐败”，包括监管者和企业之间的串通勾结。
Prosecutors and government auditors said Coast Guard officials turned a blind eye to problems with safety checks after they had been taken to the resort island of Jeju, where they were wined and dined by the ferry company. Other inspectors admitted that they eyeballed boats from a distance to see how deeply they sat in the water, effectively guessing whether they were overloaded with cargo.
检察官和政府审计部门称，海岸警卫队官员曾经被渡轮公司请到度假胜地济州岛上吃喝玩乐，此后就对安全检查中出现的问题睁一只眼闭一只眼。还有检查员承认，他们是在远处凭肉眼看船只吃水有多深，实际上是在猜测是否超载。
Members of Mr. Yoo’s church, known as Salvationists, say such discoveries are behind the government’s push to investigate the Yoos, saying it hopes to shift attention away not only from its own regulatory failures, but also the badly fumbled rescue attempt of the ferry, which had only 172 known survivors. The accident left Ms. Park’s government in disarray. Her prime minister tendered his resignation, and her approval ratings have plummeted.
俞炳彦所属“救援派”(Salvationists)教会的信徒说，这些发现的背后是政府在重点推进对俞炳彦的调查，他们说这是想把注意力从政府身上引开，政府不但存在监管失职，还在渡轮的救援过程中笨手笨脚，目前已知的事故幸存者仅172人。此次事故令朴槿惠政府陷入一片混乱，她的总理递交了辞呈，而她的支持率也大幅下跌。
“It’s as if all the problems are solved once they crack down on Yoo Byung-eun and the Salvationists,” said Yi Tae-jong, who operates an online archive of Mr. Yoo’s sermons and is a church spokesman. “From the days of founding our church, he is our biggest mentor.”
“给人的感觉仿佛是，只要镇压了俞炳彦和救援派，一切问题就都解决了，”教会发言人、俞炳彦布道在线文献的负责人李泰宗（Yi Tae-jong，音译）说。“从教会创立之日起，他一直是我们最值得信赖的导师。”
Grand Childhood Ambitions
少年壮志
Mr. Yoo’s grand ambitions started in boyhood. A sickly child, he dreamed of becoming “a sculptor greater than Michelangelo,” according to a collection of sermons published in 1981. But soon after high school, in the 1960s, he found a new calling: religion.
俞炳彦从小就怀着雄心壮志。据1981年出版的一本布道文集，他自幼体弱多病，但一直梦想着成为“比米开朗基罗更伟大的雕塑家”。然而在上世纪60年代从高中毕业后，他发现了一个新事业：宗教。
The source of his inspiration was an American Christian missionary, whose teachings led the young Mr. Yoo to evangelize as well, his church website says. A charismatic speaker, he soon had enough followers to help found a new religious movement with a fellow preacher — following a well-worn tradition in South Korea, the birthplace of the Rev. Sun Myung Moon and his Unification Church.
教会网站上称，俞炳彦的灵感来自一名美国的基督教传教士，此人的教导让年轻的俞炳彦皈依了福音。他是一个富有感染力的演讲者，很快就吸引到足够多的追随者，进而与一位传教同仁一起创办了一家新的宗教团体——这在韩国是个沿袭多年的做法，这里曾经孕育了文鲜明牧师(Rev. Sun Myung Moon)和他的统一教(Unification Church)。
Mr. Yoo’s church, the Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea, now claims to have 100,000 members, adhering to a polarizing interpretation of how Christians reach salvation.
俞炳彦的教会“韩国基督教福音浸礼会”(Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea)目前称其拥有10万名教众，该教对基督徒的得救秉持着一种极端化的阐释。
“They no longer have to repent, even if they commit such sins as adultery and thievery; they are lawless people,” said Jin Yong-sik, a Presbyterian pastor in Anseong and an expert on fringe churches in South Korea. “Yoo Byung-eun is a cult leader. He is deified as a Moses or a messiah among his followers, and they give him money as he pleases.”
“他们已经不需要忏悔，哪怕是犯下了通奸和偷盗这样的罪；他们是无法无天的一群人，”安城的长老会牧师、韩国边缘教会问题专家陈勇植（Jin Yong-sik，音译）说。“俞炳彦是异端宗教领袖。他在教众中被神化为摩西或弥赛亚一般，教众会送钱给他，想要多少就给多少。”
Church leaders dispute the allegations, saying their religion is being vilified despite being rooted in the Bible. One of their tenets — a focus on health — appears to stem from Mr. Yoo’s frailty as a child, when he suffered from tuberculosis, and a personal preoccupation with cleanliness. He preached that cleansing the body and particularly the blood could help achieve spiritual purity, and wrote disapprovingly of fellow Christians’ lengthy prayers before meals that allowed “little white specks” of spit to fall in their food.
教会领导人否认了上述指控，他们说，自己的宗教根植于《圣经》，现在却遭到了诋毁。重视健康是他们的教义之一，这似乎是因为俞炳彦童年时曾患肺结核，身体孱弱，此外，他本人特别爱干净。余炳彦说，清洁身体，尤其是清洁血液，有助于实现精神上的洁净，他还在文章中表示不赞成基督徒冗长的餐前祈祷，称这会使“星星点点的白色”唾液掉进食物里。
As Mr. Yoo built his church, he embarked on a second career, as a business magnate. Starting in the 1970s, he turned the church into a source of cash, investigators and former and current Salvationists say, by persuading adherents to donate to or invest their savings in his growing number of companies.
在建立教会的同时，俞炳彦还开始了自己的第二职业，成为了一名企业巨头。调查人员以及救援派曾经和现在的教徒说，从上世纪70年代开始，他把教会变成了一棵摇钱树，劝说信徒把自己的积蓄捐赠或投资给自己名下越来越多的公司。
By the 1980s, he had built a mini-chaebol, or family-run business group, that over the years has included a dizzying array of products, from a top-selling shark oil supplement and organic milk to cosmetics, auto parts and special paint for nuclear plants.
到了上世纪80年代，俞炳彦已经打造了一个小型的家族企业集团，多年来生产的产品种类令人眼花缭乱，从畅销的鲨鱼油补品和有机奶粉，到化妆品、汽车零部件，以及核电站专用涂料。
He was recognized as a rising figure in the nation’s business world when the military dictator Chun Doo-hwan visited one of his factories in 1984. Two years later, Mr. Yoo was suspected of using his growing political connections to get into the business of operating passenger vessels, with one of his companies winning the right to run tourist boats on Seoul’s Han River when the city hosted the 1988 Summer Olympics.
在军事独裁者全斗焕(Chun Doo-hwan)1984年参观了他的一家工厂之后，俞炳彦在外界眼中成了韩国商界一颗冉冉升起的新星。两年后，俞炳彦涉嫌利用自己日益庞大的政治关系网进入游船运营业，他的一家公司赢得了在1988年汉城夏季奥运会期间，在韩国汉江上运营游船的权利。
Even then, Mr. Yoo’s vessels faced criticism for overloading. Once, when his company tried to board more than twice one vessel’s maximum limit of 200 passengers during a busy holiday season, irate passengers almost rioted, said Lee Cheong, a former Salvationist who worked as a crewman on the boat. He said Mr. Yoo watched the melee impassively from the pier.
俞炳彦的游轮在当时就已经因为超载受到了指责。有一次，在一个繁忙的假日，俞炳彦的公司企图让超出船只最大载客量一倍的游客上船，在这艘船上担任船员的前救援派信徒李青（Lee Cheong，音译）说，愤怒的乘客几乎要开始闹事。而俞炳彦只是在码头上看着，面对混乱的人群无动于衷。
Crashing to Earth
跌落云端
Mr. Yoo’s ascent was halted in 1991, when he was arrested after the deaths of 32 members of a splinter group from the Salvationists. They were found dead in the attic of a factory cafeteria in 1987; some of them had been hanged. An investigation by the police did not charge Mr. Yoo in connection with the deaths, ruling them a mass suicide that appeared to be a result of loans that the group could not repay.
俞炳彦的上升之路在1991年遭到逮捕时戛然而止。俞炳彦被捕之前，救援派分裂出来的一个团体有32名成员身亡。这些人的尸体是1987年在一家工厂食堂的阁楼里发现的，其中有些人是上吊身亡。警方在调查之后，没有指控俞炳彦与这些人的死亡有关，而是称他们是集体自杀，原因似乎是无力偿还债务。
But Mr. Yoo was convicted on charges of defrauding his church members by improperly diverting money to his businesses, charges that he denied until his death. He spent four years in prison, from 1991 to 1995.
不过，由于以不正当的方式向自己名下的企业转移资金，俞炳彦因为欺诈教会成员的罪名被判刑，他至死都没有承认这些指控。从1991年到1995年，俞炳彦在狱中服刑四年。
The prison sentence, and the subsequent collapse of his business group during the Asian financial crisis in the 1990s, were a fall from grace from which few Koreans expected him to recover. But prosecutors say he bounced back quickly upon release and found ways to avoid public scrutiny.
被判入狱，再加上旗下的企业集团在上世纪90年代的亚洲金融危机中瓦解，俞炳彦身败名裂，在韩国几乎没人认为他还能东山再起。但检方称，出狱后的俞炳彦很快振作起来，找到了逃脱公众严密审视的种种办法。
First, after his companies went bankrupt, he regained control of his businesses by having his two sons buy back companies from receivership at fire-sale prices after a government recovery program had forgiven much of the debt, government officials and prosecutors say. With his sons and a daughter, Mr. Yoo then linked these companies in a tight web of murky cross-shareholdings that prosecutors contend Mr. Yoo controlled by placing family members and loyal church believers in executive jobs.
政府官员和检方说，俞炳彦名下的多家公司破产之后，政府一个促进经济复苏的项目免除了很多债务，于是他首先让两个儿子以极低价格从破产托管部门买回了自己的公司，重新获得了公司的控制权。他和两个儿子和一个女儿，建立了一个紧密而复杂的交叉持股网络，共同管理着这些公司。检方称，通过安排家庭成员和忠实教徒担任高管职务，俞炳彦对这个网络实施着控制。
Prosecutors and financial regulators contend that Mr. Yoo and his family invented increasingly creative ways to enrich themselves. One way was by charging Yoo-controlled companies fees to use some of the more than 1,300 patents and trademarks that they claimed, many of which prosecutors say were a sham. In one case, investigators say, Mr. Yoo’s elder son, Dae-kyoon, 43, charged the ferry company, the Chonghaejin Marine Company, $1.45 million for the right to use the name of one of its own ferries. The other son owned the rights to the name Sewol, the ferry that sank, though it was unclear if he ever charged the company to use it.
检方和金融监管机构称，俞炳彦及其家族创造出了越来越多别出心裁的敛财方法。其中之一就是对俞炳彦控制的企业收取专利和商标使用费。俞炳彦家族拥有超过1300项专利和商标，检方称，其中很多都是徒有虚名。例如，检方说，俞炳彦的长子、现年43岁的俞大均（Yoo Dae-kyoon，音译）就向清海镇海运公司(Chonghaejin Marine Company)收取了145万美元，名义是该公司旗下一艘船的船名使用费。俞炳彦的另一个儿子拥有沉没船只“世越号”船名的权利，不过目前尚不清楚他是否向该公司收取了使用费。
At the same time, regulatory filings show, the Yoos owned no shares of Chonghaejin, at least not on paper. But the ferry company’s largest stockholder was a shipbuilding business, Chonhaiji Co., that in turn was controlled by I-One-I Holdings, an investment company where Mr. Yoo’s two sons are listed as controlling shareholders. The prosecutors also say that behind the scenes Mr. Yoo acted as the chairman and chief decision maker of the ferry company — which family representatives have denied — and earned a salary of almost $10,000 a month.
与此同时，监管机构的文件显示，俞炳彦家族并不持有清海镇海运公司的股份，至少从纸面上看如此。但这家海运公司的最大股东，是一家名为天海地(Chonhaiji Co.)的造船企业，而这家造船公司由投资公司I-One-I Holdings控股。文件显示，俞炳彦的两个儿子是该公司的控股股东。检方还表示，俞炳彦在幕后充当着这家海运公司的董事长和最高决策人——俞炳彦家族的代表予以否认——而且每月的薪酬将近1万美元。
Beginning of Trouble
悲剧的开始
In the ferry disaster, the Sewol’s troubles appear to have begun with the addition of the extra cabins and the art gallery above the main deck in late 2012, a change prosecutors say Mr. Yoo personally ordered.
在该渡轮事故中，“世越号”渡轮的问题似乎源于2012年在主甲板上增加客舱及画廊的决定。检方称，是俞炳彦亲自下令进行改造的。
The task of signing off on the new design fell to the Korean Register of Shipping, a private group that the government licenses to certify ships as seaworthy. Inspectors accepted the changes, but only after setting limits on the amount of cargo the vessel could carry and a clear minimum on the amount of ballast water needed when fully loaded. It also assigned an inspector to ensure the remodeling was done correctly.
韩国船级社(Korean Register of Shipping)负责核准这个新的设计方案，这家私营机构受到政府授权，可以颁发证书表明船舶适于航海。检查员在对船舶载货量作出限制，并明确规定船满载时所需的压舱水的最低重量后，才接受了这些改造。该机构还派出了一名检查人员确保改造工作正确进行。
That inspector is now one of six regulators behind bars. His indictment says he approved the retrofitting without properly conducting an “incline test” to determine whether the renovated ship was stable.
目前，那名检查员已经和其他五名监管人员一道被关进了牢房。对他的起诉书写到，是他批准了给船加装新设施，然而，他并没有妥善地实施“倾斜测试”来判断改装后的船是否稳定。
The Coast Guard was supposed to check whether he had performed the test properly, but it did not, government auditors and prosecutors say. In an interim investigative report this month, the government’s board of audit suggested the redesign had not followed the approved blueprints and was 100 tons heavier than promised. Much of the extra weight came from the addition of thick marble slabs for the art gallery.
政府审核员和检察机关表示，海岸警卫队本应核实，检查员是否妥善地实施了测试，然而他们并没有核实。在本月公布的一份中期调查报告中，韩国审计监察院表示，这艘船的二次设计不符合已经审批过的设计图纸，而且比承诺的改装重量多了100吨。超出的重量大多来自建造画廊所用的厚重的大理石板。
The next layer of protection was supposed to come from the Korea Shipping Association, or K.S.A., which checks that ships are not overloaded. Each time ferries leave port, they report the amount of cargo they are carrying to K.S.A. inspectors.
韩国航运协会（Korea Shipping Association，简称KSA）本应提供下一重保护，该机构负责检查船只是否超载。渡轮每次离港，都需要把船上的载货量上报给KSA的检查员。
Critics of the maritime safety system have long said that the shipping association should not monitor safety because it has a built-in conflict of interest: It is an industry group funded by the shipping companies that it is supposed to monitor.
长期以来，海上安全机制的批评者一直认为，KSA不应该监督航运安全，因为其机制有着内在的利益冲突：它是一个由航运公司资助的行业组织，同时却又担负着监督出资方的责任。
K.S.A. officials in Jeju, the resort island on the Sewol’s route, admitted during an interview in June that inspectors did not leave shore to inspect ships when deciding whether they were overloaded. They argued that shippers deprived them of the money needed to do more thorough inspections.
KSA驻济州岛的官员在今年6月的一次采访中承认，在判断船只是否超载时，检查员并没有离开海岸登船检查，济州岛是“世越号”航线上的度假胜地。这些官员辩解说，航运公司没有提供足够的资金，他们没办法开展更全面的检查。
They now admit that looking at the load line painted on the side of ships posed a special risk, because companies could simply mask heavier cargos by shedding ballast water, as the crew of the Sewol is accused of doing. In that case, the tactic proved deadly, removing a critical counterweight needed to prevent the vessel from capsizing.
现在，他们承认，仅靠观察船侧所划的载重线来做判断，存在特殊的风险，因为航运公司可以卸掉压舱水，来掩饰较沉的货物，检方对“世越号”船员就做出了这样的指控。压舱水是防止船只倾覆的关键平衡力。事实证明，这种做法在此次事件中造成了惨痛的后果。
As it was, prosecutors say the company overloaded the Sewol during at least 139 voyages in the 13 months it was in service. In court, some executives and crew members have acknowledged that the ship routinely carried more cargo than it was allowed. Dockworkers say the ship was so unstable that it would lurch badly during loading and unloading, sometimes forcing them to drive forklifts onto one side to hold the boat steady while cars were driven off the other side.
检方表示，事实上，这家公司过去13个月里提供的航运服务至少有139次是超载的。在法庭上，一些高管和船员承认，这艘船的载重经常高于法定载重量。码头工人说，这艘渡轮很不稳，以至于会在装船和卸船时剧烈摇晃，有时，当车辆从渡轮的一侧驶下时，为了保持船体平衡，他们不得不把叉车开到船体的另一侧。
On a blustery day in January, three months before the Sewol capsized, the ship’s trouble with balance became glaringly obvious during a port stop in Jeju. Hit by gusts, the ship’s oversize superstructure acted like a huge sail, pinning the vessel to the dock and preventing it from departing. The episode was worrisome enough to company officials in Jeju that they sent a report to their management warning of the ship’s instability, prosecutors say.
今年1月，就在“世越号”发生倾覆的三个月前的某个大风天，这艘船在济州岛泊岸时出现了非常明显的平衡问题。在狂风冲击下，船体过大的上部结构成了一张巨大的风帆，把船推向码头无法起航。检方说，公司驻济州岛的管理人员对这次事故十分担心，向管理层发送了一份报告，提醒他们这艘船的稳定性相当差。
When company officials decided that the ship was so troubled that it should be sold, their plan was vetoed by Mr. Yoo himself, prosecutors say. Instead, company executives colluded to “load as much cargo as possible, whatever the costs,” according to prosecutors.
检方说，公司管理人员认为这艘船是个大麻烦，应该把它卖掉，然而他们的计划被俞炳彦否决了。据检方透露，事实正相反，公司高管合谋要不计代价地“把货物装上船，能装多少装多少”。
The many ways in which the ferry company cheated came back to haunt the Sewol on April 16, the day of the accident, when all of the vessel’s problems combined in a cascading series of events. As it headed toward the most dangerous part of the journey, a narrow waterway with treacherous currents called the Maenggol Strait, it was burdened with 2,142 metric tons of cargo, about twice the maximum permitted, according to prosecutors.
渡轮公司林林总总的欺骗伎俩回过头来缠上了“世越号”，那是4月16日，也就是事故发生的当天，这艘船的各方面问题集合在一起，导致了一连串事件的发生。据检方说，当时这艘船正朝着这趟旅程中最危险的水域航行，那是一段名叫孟骨峡(Maenggol Strait)的狭窄水道，水道里暗流涌动，船上载着2142吨货物，大约是法定最大载重量的两倍。
Beyond that, it had only 761 metric tons of ballast water, less than half the minimum required. Then the ship’s helmsman turned too far to the right, more sharply than the five-degree turn that the regular captain, who was not working that day, had recommended because the ship was so wobbly, prosecutors said. Crew members and surviving passengers watched as stacks of cargo containers that had been badly tied down suddenly started sliding, throwing the ship’s weight to one side.
不仅如此，船上只有761吨的压载水，还不到最低要求的一半。检方说，在那之后，舵手右转舵时幅度过于剧烈，超过了那日不当值的船长提出的建议——由于船身摇晃得厉害，船长只建议转舵5度。船员和幸存的乘客眼看着一堆堆被糟糕地固定在一起的集装箱突然开始滑动，把重量都压向了船的一侧。
Soon after the first Coast Guard rescue boat arrived, it reported that the ferry was already listing by 60 degrees, making its top deck nearly perpendicular to the water. When rescuers clambered onto the exposed right side of the capsizing vessel, they could see the trapped passengers through the windows but could not help them in time because they did not have the ropes and climbing equipment needed for a rescue, said Kim Sae-in, a Coast Guard official in Mokpo, the port from which the first rescue vessel came. “A ship of that size should have taken several hours to flip, not less than two,” Mr. Kim said.
海岸警卫队的第一艘救援船抵达现场才不久，就通报说渡轮已经倾斜了60度，上甲板几乎已经垂直于水面了。当救援人员爬上正在倾覆的渡轮裸露在外的右侧甲板时，他们能透过窗户看到被困的乘客，可是却无法及时把他们救出来，原因是他们没有实施救援所需的绳索和攀爬设备。木浦港海岸警卫队官员金世寅（Kim Sae-in，音译）说，抵达现场的第一艘救援船就来自木浦。“这种量级的船要翻个应该需要几个小时，至少不少于两小时，”金世寅说。
Three months later, salvage crews are still looking for 10 missing bodies, and the ship remains where it sank. Since the accident, prosecutors have frozen more than $100 million in assets from the extended Yoo family, including Bentley sedans and more than 200 apartments in South Korea.
三个月之后，打捞人员依然在寻找十具下落不明的尸体，沉船仍然滞留在覆没地点。事故发生后，检方已经冻结了庞大的俞炳彦家族所拥有的逾1亿美元资产，其中包括多辆宾利(Bentley)轿车和位于韩国的200多套公寓。