South Korea plans to repatriate the remains of more than 400 Chinese soldiers killed during the Korean War, a sign of warming ties between the two countries and China’s increasing focus on remembering its war dead.
韩国计划将400多名在朝鲜战争中丧生的中国士兵的遗骸送回中国，这不仅表明两国间的关系正在升温，也显示出中国对纪念阵亡将士的关注度正在逐渐提高。
South Korean and Chinese military personnel oversaw the placement of bones from 437 Chinese soldiers into coffins on Monday, South Korea’s Ministry of National Defense said. The remains will be returned to China ahead of the Tomb Sweeping Festival in early April, when the dead are commemorated.
韩国国防部(Ministry of National Defense)表示，周一，在韩国和中国的军事人员的主持下，437名中国士兵的遗骸被放入棺中。这些遗骸将在4月初的中国清明节以前被送回中国。清明是一个纪念亡灵的节日。
“The return of Chinese soldiers’ remains was a milestone of healing the wounds of war both countries suffered,” Moon Sang-gyun, a South Korean Defense Ministry official, was quoted as saying by Xinhua, China’s state-run news agency.
据中国国家通讯社新华社报道，韩国国防部官员文尚君（Moon Sang-gyun，音译）称，“送回中国士兵遗骸的做法是一个里程碑式的举措，它将有助于两国战争创伤的愈合。”
During a visit to China in June, President Park Geun-hye of South Korea proposed returning the remains of soldiers killed during the 1950-53 conflict on the Korean Peninsula. They had previously been interred in an “enemy cemetery” in the South Korean town of Paju, near the demilitarized zone that separates North and South Korea.
去年6月，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)在访华期间提出要把在1950-53年朝鲜战争中丧生的中国士兵的残骸送回中国。这些残骸之前被埋在韩国坡州市的一个“敌墓”中，此地位于朝鲜和韩国边境的非军事区附近。
The graveyard, which was opened in 1996, holds more than 700 North Korean war dead. Talks on returning the North Koreans have never made much progress. That’s partly because they include North Korean commandos killed during a 1968 assassination attempt on Park Chung-hee, the president of South Korea at the time and father of the current president — a plot the North has never acknowledged.
这个墓地于1996年开放，里面埋葬着700多名朝鲜阵亡人员。关于送还这些遗骸的谈判从未取得过多大进步。这部分是因为，死者中包括1968年试图谋杀朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)——时任韩国总统，现任韩国总统的父亲——的朝鲜敢死队成员。朝鲜从未承认此事。
China has recently begun to emphasize the protection of memorials to its war dead and has begun repatriating some remains, including those of soldiers who fought the Japanese in Burma during World War II.
近些年，中国开始强调对其阵亡将士的纪念物进行保护，并开始收回士兵遗骸，其中还包括二战期间在缅甸与日本人作战的将士遗骸。