SEOUL, South Korea — During the lunch hour on Thursday in downtown Seoul, amid government agencies and newspaper offices, diners lined up at cash registers to do something long considered a breach of etiquette here: splitting the bill.
韩国首尔——周四，在首尔市中心的中午就餐时间，在政府机构和报社，就餐者在收银台前排着队做一件长期以来在韩国被认为违反礼仪的事情：分担餐费。
The previous day, a widely discussed law aimed at curtailing corruption took effect in South Korea. Among other things, it bars public servants, journalists and teachers from accepting a meal worth more than 30,000 won, about $27, if there is a potential conflict of interest.
之前一天，一项引发广泛讨论、旨在遏制腐败的法律开始在韩国生效。其中一条是禁止公职人员、记者和教师接受超过3万韩元（约合180元人民币）的餐食——如果存在潜在利益冲突的话。
That alone seems likely to change the dining culture here, where tradition holds that the host or the oldest person at a table picks up the tab.
单这一条似乎就很可能改变这里的就餐文化——韩国的传统是主人或年纪最大的人买单。
“We thought it was safest to simply go Dutch, because it’s often difficult to tell which situation constitutes a conflict of interest,” Cho Myun-mi, a teacher in Seoul, said about her lunch on Thursday with colleagues and friends.
“我们认为，最安全的做法就是各自付钱，因为往往很难判断哪种情况算存在利益冲突，”在首尔当老师的赵明美（Cho Myun-mi，音）谈起周四她与同事和朋友的午餐时说。
“It was awkward,” she added, “but we’d better get used to it.”
“很别扭，”她补充说，“不过我们最好慢慢习惯它。”
The new law, called the Kim Young-ran Act after the former Supreme Court justice who drafted it, is being hailed as a milestone in efforts to fight corruption in South Korea, where collusion between government officials and businesses is a major public concern — and where wining and dining, cash envelopes and other kinds of gifts have long been central to doing business.
这项被称为金英兰法案(Kim Young-ran Act)的新法律是根据起草它的前最高法院法官金英兰命名的。它被称赞为韩国反腐努力的里程碑。在韩国，政府官员和企业之间的勾结是公众非常担忧的一个问题——在这里，请客吃饭喝酒、给红包或其他礼物一直是做生意的关键。
Besides the restrictions on meals, the law bars people in the targeted professions and their spouses — estimated to be four million, out of a total population of 51 million — from accepting any gift worth more than $45 (or $90 at weddings or funerals), if a conflict of interest could exist. And with a few exceptions, people in those fields are simply forbidden to accept any gift worth more than $910.
除了对请客吃饭的约束，这项法律还禁止那些特别针对的职业者及其配偶——估计有400万人，韩国的总人口是5100万——接受任何价值超过45美元（约合300元人民币，婚丧场合不超过90美元，约合600元人民币）的礼物——如果存在利益冲突的话。在几种特殊情况下，那些领域的人禁止接受任何价值超过910美元（约合6070元人民币）的礼物。
People seem to be taking the law seriously. Schools across South Korea posted signs this week warning parents not to bring gifts for teachers, a common practice that has raised concerns about corruption in this education-focused culture. Funeral directors even reported that fewer wreaths were being delivered to grieving families.
人们似乎都认真对待这项法律。本周，韩国的学校纷纷张贴告示，警告父母不要给老师带礼物。给老师送礼是韩国的惯例，在这个重视教育的社会里它已引发关于腐败的担心。有殡葬业从业者表示，送给服丧家庭的花圈都变少了。
But restaurants seemed likely to be most affected.
不过，最受影响的很可能是餐馆。
“We saw this law coming and have prepared special set menus that do not exceed the 30,000 won limit, retiring some of our more expensive options,” said Kim Bu-shik, who runs a restaurant in Seoul. “The new law will make our society more transparent, but I must say it is not good for our business at all, for now.”
“我们知道这项法律要实施了，准备了一些不超过3万韩元的特别套餐，取消了一些更昂贵的选择，”在首尔经营一家餐馆的金富植（Kim Bu-shik，音）说。“新法律将让我们的社会更透明，但我得说，目前对我们的生意一点都不好。”
“Many of the government people who frequented my place don’t come out,” he said, adding that they were apparently eating at in-house cafeterias instead.
“很多经常来我这里吃饭的政府人士都不来了，”他说道。他还表示，他们显然都改在内部食堂吃饭了。
In Parliament, an audit of government agencies is underway — a process that, in the past, was often accompanied by officials from the agencies treating lawmakers to sumptuous lunches. But on Thursday, lawmakers and members of their staff filled the Parliament cafeteria, dining among themselves.
在议会，政府机构的审计工作正在进行中——以前，在这期间，那些机构的官员经常请立法者享用丰盛的午餐。不过，周四，立法者和他们的幕僚挤满议会食堂，自己用餐。
South Korean journalists, another group targeted by the law, have also been known to accept free meals, and sometimes more expensive gifts, like golf outings. Last month, a top editor at the country’s largest newspaper, the Chosun Ilbo, resigned after it emerged that he had gone on a lavish trip to Italy paid for by a shipbuilding company. The newspaper later apologized.
众所周知，韩国的记者——这项法律针对的另一个群体——也经常接受免费大餐，有时是更昂贵的礼物，比如去打高尔夫。上个月，该国最大报纸《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)的一名高级编辑被曝出用一家造船企业的钱去意大利进行了一场奢华旅行，因此辞职。该报后来公开致歉。
Public grievances over corruption among the government and business elite run deep here, and calls for an overhaul have mounted in recent years. Of particular concern are the so-called sponsorship relationships that officials are suspected of maintaining with corporate executives, involving the promotion of business interests in exchange for expensive meals and other gifts.
公众对政府和企业精英腐败的不满由来已久，近些年要求彻底改革的呼声越来越高。尤其是官员们被怀疑与企业高管之间保持所谓的赞助关系，涉及为企业牟利以换取昂贵的大餐和其他礼物。
In July, Justice Minister Kim Hyun-woong offered a rare public apology after a senior prosecutor, Jin Kyung-joon, was arrested on charges of taking millions of dollars in bribes from the owner of an online game company, deepening public suspicions about corruption among high-ranking law enforcement officials.
今年7月，高级检察官陈庆俊（Jin Kyung-joon，音）因被控从一家网络游戏公司的所有者那里收受数以百万美元计的贿赂而被捕，让公众更加怀疑高阶执法官员中间腐败盛行，随后，司法部长金贤雄(Kim Hyun-woong)罕见地公开致歉。
On Thursday, another senior prosecutor, Kim Hyung-joon, was arrested on bribery charges in a closely watched case. He is accused of receiving a total of more than $45,000 from two friends, a businessman and a lawyer, in return for trying to influence colleagues who were investigating fraud and other charges against them. He was also treated to expensive meals by executives at a financial service company, in return for leaking information about an investigation of the firm, prosecutors said.
另一名高级检查官金亨俊（Kim Hyung-joon，音）卷入了一桩备受关注的案件，于周四被当局以受贿的罪名逮捕。他被控从两个朋友——一名商人和一名律师——那里总计收取了逾4.5万美元的贿赂。作为回报，他在两人因被控犯下欺诈等罪行而接受调查期间，竭力对负责调查工作的同事施加影响。检察官称，他还接受了某金融服务公司高管的豪华宴请，作为回报，他透露了该公司正在被调查的消息。
Mr. Kim was not arrested under the terms of the new law but rather under longstanding South Korean statutes against bribery. He has admitted taking money from his friends but denied doing favors for them — a defense that will not apply in cases brought under the new law, given the ban on officials taking expensive gifts for almost any reason.
当局逮捕金亨俊的依据不是这项新法规的条文，而是韩国早已有之的反贿赂法规。他承认拿了朋友的钱，但否认给他们帮了忙——根据几乎禁止官员以任何理由收取昂贵礼物的新法规，这种辩护是不管用的。
The new measure does allow for exceptions, like gifts between close relatives or people who are in love, although critics say that such a sentiment is hard to define. They also say that in South Korea, where much of one’s social life is shaped by school and hometown connections, it can be hard to tell where conflict of interest begins.
新举措也允许存在一些例外情况，例如收受近亲属或者爱人的礼物，不过批评人士称，爱人关系很难界定。他们还表示，在韩国，校友和同乡关系对人们的社交生活有很大影响，很难确认利益冲突是从哪里开始的。
Getting caught is a real concern given the number of camera-wielding bounty hunters in South Korea who record evidence of crimes in hopes of receiving rewards from the government. The anticorruption measure has vastly expanded their hunting ground.
鉴于韩国有大量举着摄像机拍摄罪证，期待从政府那里得到奖赏的赏金猎人，一些品行不端者非常担心自己被逮到。而这项反腐举措大大拓展了赏金猎人们的阵地。
One of the first people accused of breaking the law was the mayor of a Seoul district whose office took 160 elderly people on a sightseeing tour on Wednesday and bought them lunch. The mayor’s office said the lunches cost less than $27 each, and that the tour was part of an annual community program.
第一个被控违反这项法规的人，是首尔的一个区长。其办公室于周三请160名老人观光旅游，还给他们买了午餐。区长办公室称，每人的午餐费不到27美元，而观光旅游是每年都有的一项社区活动的组成部分。
The police are investigating the matter.
警方正就此事展开调查。