SEOUL, South Korea — Agents from the National Intelligence Service of South Korea posted more than 1.2 million Twitter messages last year to try to sway public opinion in favor of Park Geun-hye, then a presidential candidate, and her party ahead of elections in 2012, state prosecutors said on Thursday.
首尔，韩国——周四，国家检察官表示，在2012年大选之前，韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)的特工发布了超过120万条的Twitter消息。这些消息旨在左右公众观点，使其支持总统候选人朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)和她所在的政党。
For months, South Korean politics have been rocked by the opposition’s accusations that officials at the National Intelligence Service, the country’s spy agency, and the military conducted an ambitious but clandestine online campaign to help Ms. Park win election as president on Dec. 19.
数月以来，韩国政坛持续震荡，反对党指责这个国家情报机构的官员和军队军官实施了一场野心勃勃的秘密网上运动，帮助朴槿惠于去年12月19日当选总统。
Prosecutors have indicted several top intelligence officials, including Won Sei-hoon, the former director of the spy agency, on charges of ordering an online smear campaign against opposition candidates in violation of election law. A team of agents posted online messages that lauded government policies while ridiculing Ms. Park’s opposition rivals as untrustworthy pro-North Korean sympathizers ahead of the parliamentary election in April last year and the subsequent presidential election, they said.
检察官已经指控数名情报部门高官违反选举法律，命令下属在网上展开针对反对党候选人的中伤行动，其中就包括该情报机构的前负责人元世勋(Won Sei-hoon)。检察官指出，在去年4月议会选举和随后的总统选举之前，一组特工在网上发布消息，在赞颂政府政策的同时，嘲弄朴槿惠的反对派对手是亲朝的朝鲜同情者，不可信赖。
But the prosecutors could not clarify how the operation affected the result of the elections. Ms. Park, who won her election by one million votes, has said she neither ordered nor benefited from such a campaign. But the opposition party claimed that she and the conservative government of her predecessor, Lee Myung-bak, colluded to manipulate the election results.
但是检察官尚无法说明这一行动怎样影响了选举结果。朴槿惠以一百万票的优势赢得选举，她表示自己既没有指挥，也没有从这一行动中获益。但反对党声称，朴槿惠和其前任李明博(Lee Myung-bak)的保守派政府串通，操控了选举结果。
The evidence unveiled by prosecutors on Thursday showed that the Twitter campaign was more expansive than previously known. The revelation came as political pressure has mounted on the prosecutors. In the National Assembly, the opposition is pushing for the appointment of an independent investigator, saying that the investigation by the prosecutors cannot be trusted.
检察官周四公布的证据显示，此次网上行动超过了之前估计的规模。之所以会公布这些证据，是因为检察官感受到了越来越大的政治压力。在国会中，反对党力主任命一名独立调查员，他们说由检察官负责的调查让人无法信任。
During a budget speech to the National Assembly on Monday, Ms. Park lamented the prolonged political strife, which has grounded many economic and tax overhaul bills. She promised to block the intelligence agency from meddling in domestic politics but called for people to trust the prosecutors and the court to investigate the election scandal.
周一在国会进行预算演讲时，朴槿惠对漫长的政治倾轧表示遗憾，这已经导致了许多经济和税收改革法案陷入僵局。她保证，将限制情报机构干预国内政治，但是也呼吁人们信任检察官和法院对于这起选举丑闻的调查。
On Thursday, her deputy, Prime Minister Chung Hong-won, said the prosecutors’ new findings were evidence that they were being fair. The governing Saenuri Party also accused the opposition of starting a political offensive to discredit Ms. Park’s legitimacy as president.
周四，朴槿惠的副手、总理郑烘原(Chung Hong-won)表示，检察官的新发现证明后者是公正的。执政的新国家党(Saenuri Party)则指责反对派挑起政治攻势，想要破坏朴槿惠作为总统的合法性。
“We don’t think that the prosecutors’ fairness and neutrality were compromised,” Yoon Sang-hyun, a deputy floor leader, was quoted by his party as saying during its leadership meeting.
新国家党引述其议会副领袖尹相铉(Yoon Sang-hyun)在该党领导会议时的发言说，“我们不认为检察官的公正性和中立性受到了影响。”
But the main opposition Democratic Party called for the dismissal of Justice Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn, accusing him of soft-pedaling the prosecutors’ inquiry to prevent any finding that would hurt Ms. Park. Mr. Hwang, appointed by Ms. Park, oversees the prosecutors. Opposition party leaders have also held a series of rallies in recent months demanding an apology from Ms. Park, whom they accuse of obstructing a fair investigation.
但是，主要反对党民主党呼吁法务部长黄教安(Hwang Kyo-ahn)下台，指责他延缓了检察官的调查，以防止找到任何可能会影响到朴槿惠的证据。黄教安负责管控检察官，他的职务为朴槿惠所委任。过去数月，反对党领袖举办了多场集会，要求朴槿惠道歉，他们指责朴槿惠阻碍了公正调查的进行。
“What’s clear so far is that the National Intelligence Service and other state agencies had engaged in a systematic and massive intervention in elections,” Kim Han-gil, the top opposition party leader, said on Thursday.
反对党最高领袖金韩吉(Kim Han-gil)周四表示，“目前比较清楚的是，国家情报院和其他国家机关参与了一场针对多次选举的、系统性的大规模干预行动。”
The intelligence service said its online messages were posted as part of normal psychological warfare operations against North Korea, which it said used the Internet to criticize South Korean government policies, forcing its agents to defend them online. In a statement on Thursday, it also accused the prosecutors of citing as their evidence online postings that had nothing to do with its agents.
情报院表示，他们发布的网上消息是针对朝鲜的常规性心理战行动的一部分。该机构说，朝鲜会利用互联网批评韩国政府的政策，韩国特工不得已必须在网上维护政府。在周四发表的声明中，该机构指责检察官引述网上消息作为证据，他们认为有些消息与其特工没有任何关系。
The allegation first surfaced during the election campaign last year, when opposition politicians and officials from the National Election Commission tried in vain to enter an office in Seoul that was locked from the inside by an intelligence agent who refused to answer questions about whether she was part of an illegal online election effort.
这些指控首先出现在去年的竞选活动当中，当时反对派政客和国家选举委员会(National Election Commission)的官员试图进入一间被一名特工从内部反锁的首尔办公室。他们没能进去，而这名特工也拒绝回答有关她是否参与到非法网上竞选宣传中的问题。
Three days before the presidential election, the Seoul police announced that they had found no evidence to support the opposition’s accusations. During her last television debate, Ms. Park excoriated her main opposition rival, Moon Jae-in, over what she called the harassment of a female agent by his party.
总统选举的三天前，首尔警方宣布，他们没有找到证据来支持反对派的指控。而在最后一次电视辩论的过程中，朴槿惠严词责问其主要竞选对手文在寅(Moon Jae-in)，称文在寅的政党对一名女性特工进行骚扰。
But the scandal did not die with Ms. Park’s election.
但是，丑闻并没有因为朴槿惠的当选而终止。
In a separate inquiry, military investigators are looking into South Korea’s Cyberwarfare Command after it was revealed last month in Parliament that some of its officials had conducted a similar online campaign against opposition candidates. The Cyberwarfare Command was created in 2010 to guard South Korea against hacking threats from North Korea.
在另一项调查中，军方调查人员开始对韩国网络战指挥部进行调查，因为上个月有人在国会宣称，指挥部中部分军官也参与到一场类似的针对反对派候选人的网上运动中。网络战指挥部创建于2010年，其目的在于守护韩国不受来自朝鲜的黑客威胁。
On Thursday, the prosecutors said the 1.2 million Twitter messages they had discovered were mostly copies of the 26,500 original messages that the agents mass-distributed through a special computer program. But even if they were copies, they constituted an act of meddling in domestic politics and elections, Lee Jin-han, a senior prosecutor, told reporters.
周四，检察官表示，他们发现的这120万份Twitter消息，大都是特工通过一套特别的电脑程序群发的2.65万份原始消息的副本。但是高级检察官李镇汉(Lee Jin-han)告诉记者，就算都是副本，这也构成了干预国内政治和竞选的行为。