SEOUL, South Korea — The number of South Koreans infected with Middle East respiratory syndrome increased to 64 after the government identified 14 more cases on Sunday. Officials also unveiled a list of all 24 hospitals that the confirmed cases had visited, as they also reported a fifth death linked to the virus.
韩国首尔——韩国政府周日确实了中东呼吸系统综合征（Middle East respiratory syndrome，简称MERS）14位新增患者后，该国患病人数上升到64名。政府还公布了确诊患者去过的24家医院的名单，同时报告了第五例与该病毒有关的死亡。
The government’s decision to reveal the names and locations of all 24 hospitals came as critics accused it of helping stoke fear and risking a spread of the virus by withholding the information.
批评者曾指责政府隐瞒医院信息，从而助长了恐惧情绪，助长了病毒传播的风险，此后，政府做出公开所有24家医院名字和地址的决定。
So far, confirmed cases have infected others only in six of the 24 hospitals they passed through.
到目前为止，确诊患者只在他们到过的24家医院中的六家感染过他人。
“As the numbers of patients and people under quarantine continued to increase, the government decided to take strong steps to help ease the people’s concern and fears,” Deputy Prime Minister Choi Kyung-hwan said during a news conference on Sunday where the names of the hospitals were revealed. Officials said that they have already quarantined people who may have come in contact with an infected patient in the hospitals.
“随着患者和接受隔离检疫的人数不断增加，政府决定采取强有力的措施以缓解人们的关注和担忧，”副总理崔炅焕(Choi Kyung-hwan)在周日的新闻发布会上说，这些医院的名字就是在发布会上公布的。官员们说，他们已对可能与到过几家医院的一位患者有过接触的人进行了隔离。
Until now, the government has repeatedly declined to reveal the names of all the hospitals, insisting that doing so would incite a panic in the neighborhoods nearby. But many of the names have been circulating through social media for several days.
此前，政府一直多次拒绝公开所有医院的名字，并坚持认为那样做会在附近社区引起恐慌。但多家医院的名字早已在社交媒体上流传好几天了。
The South Korean outbreak, the largest reported outside the Middle East, began in St. Mary’s Hospital in Pyeongtaek, a city 37 miles south of Seoul, the capital. The first or so-called index patient, a man who had traveled to the Middle East, was hospitalized at St. Mary’s in May. Since then, 35 other cases have been confirmed at the hospital.
韩国的疫情是目前有报道的中东以外的最大爆发，疫情始于平泽市圣母医院(St. Mary's Hospital)，该市位于首都首尔以南37英里（约合60公里）。第一个病人、即所谓的首发患者是一位去过中东地区的男子，他5月份曾在圣母医院住院治疗。那以后，该医院已确诊了有其他35个病例。
The government first identified the Pyeongtaek hospital on Friday, saying that it was trying to find and monitor everyone who had been there during a two-week period in May.
政府在周五首先公布了平泽这家医院的名字，并表示正在试图找到并观察在5月份其中两周的时间里到过这家医院的所有人。
Officials feared “a second wave” of infections after one of the patients from St. Mary’s checked into the emergency room of the Samsung Medical Center in Seoul, one of the largest hospitals in South Korea, on May 27.
圣母医院的一位患者于5月27日曾在位于首尔的韩国最大医院之一、三星医疗中心看过急诊，官员们担心那会引起感染的“第二轮爆发”。
So far, 17 cases have been confirmed among people who spent time in the Samsung emergency room, including 10 of the 14 new cases the Health Ministry reported on Sunday.
迄今为止，曾在三星急诊室与该患者发生过一定时间的接触的人中，已有17人被确诊，其中包括卫生部周日报告的14个新病例中的10例。
One of the 10 was a 74-year-old man who died on Friday. He was posthumously declared as having Middle East respiratory syndrome, or MERS, bringing the death toll from the disease in South Korea to five.
上述10例患者中，一位74岁的男子于周五去世。他在死后才被确诊为MERS患者，这让韩国的MERS死亡人数达到五人。
As health experts test people who were recently in the Samsung hospital’s emergency room, “they expect more MERS cases to be found” over the next several days, the Health Ministry said in a statement.
卫生部在一份声明中表示，随着健康专家对最近到过三星医院急诊室的人进行检查，在未来几天内，“他们预计会发现更多的MERS患者。”
More than 1,800 people believed to have been in contact with a confirmed patient were being monitored in state-run facilities or were under quarantine at home. On Sunday, Mr. Choi said that the government planned to assign a public servant to each of those people to ensure a proper quarantine. It will also monitor their cellphone signals so that the health authorities will be alerted if any of them breaks out of quarantine, he said.
据信与确诊患者发生过接触的1800多人已在政府运行的医疗设施，或在自己家中被隔离观察。崔炅焕周日说，政府打算向每位被隔离者派一名公职人员，以确保他们得到适当的隔离观察。他说，政府还将监控他们的手机信号，一旦其中有人离开隔离设施，卫生当局将收到报警。
Fear of infection has compelled more than 1,160 kindergartens and schools in South Korea to temporarily close.
对感染的恐惧已迫使韩国超过1160所幼儿园和学校临时关闭。