GWANGJU, South Korea — Prosecutors on Monday demanded the death penalty for the captain of the South Korean ferry that sank in April, killing 304 people, most of them teenage students, in the country’s worst peacetime disaster in decades.
韩国光州——检察官周一要求判处一艘韩国渡轮的船长死刑，该渡轮今年四月份沉没，导致304人死亡，其中大多数是十几岁的学生，那是韩国和平时期几十年来最严重的一场灾难。
The 69-year-old captain, Lee Jun-seok, “did nothing to help rescue his passengers,” said Park Jae-eok, the chief prosecutor, during a court hearing in this city in southwestern South Korea. “Even after he himself was rescued by the coast guard, he did nothing to help the passengers. He even hid his identity from the coast guard.”
首席检察官朴载亿（Park Jae-eok，音译）在韩国西南部这座城市的法庭审理上说，69岁的船长李准石（Lee Jun-seok，音译）“没有帮助营救自己船上的乘客。即使在他自己被海岸警卫队救起后，他也没采取任何帮助乘客的行动。他甚至向海岸警卫队隐瞒了自己的身份。”
Prosecutors demanded life imprisonment for three other crewmen: the first mate, Kang Won-sik; the second mate, Kim Young-ho; and the chief engineer, Park Gi-ho. They called for 15 to 30 years for 11 other crew members, who faced accidental homicide, criminal negligence and other charges.
检察官要求对另外三名船员判处无期徒刑：大副康元植（Kang Won-sik，音译），二副金永浩（Kim Young-ho，音译），以及轮机长朴吉镐（Park Gi-ho，音译）。检方还要求对另外11名船员判处15年至30年的有期徒刑，他们被控犯有意外杀人罪、过失犯罪，及其他罪行。
In their final argument before a court verdict expected Nov. 11, the prosecutors said that the 15 crew members of the 6,825-ton Sewol knew that their ship was sinking and that the passengers were waiting inside the ship after repeated instructions for them to stay put. Still, the crew members did not take any of the steps they could have easily taken, such as activating the emergency evacuation alarm bells, before they themselves fled the ship to get onto the first coast guard boats arriving at the scene, the prosecutors said.
这是对此案的最后一次法庭审理，法院预计将于11月11日做出判决，检察官在法庭上说，6825吨级“世越号”（旧译“岁月号”）上的15名船员知道船正在下沉，知道乘客在船舱内，此前乘客曾被多次告知要留在原地不动。尽管如此，船员们在放弃渡轮、逃到第一艘来到事故现场的海警船上之前，没有采取任何他们原本很容易采取的措施，比如启动紧急疏散警铃，检察官说。
“They only cared about their own lives,” one of the prosecutors said before a courtroom packed with 60 family members of the victims.
“他们只顾自己的死活，”一名检察官在法庭上说，旁听席上坐满了遇难者的60名家属。
The Sewol sank off southwestern South Korea on April 16. It was carrying twice as much cargo as legally allowed, and much of the cargo was poorly secured, prosecutors said.
“世越号”于4月16日在韩国西南部海域沉没。船上所载的货物是法定载量的两倍，而且大部分货物被有被捆牢，检察官说。
When the crew members, dressed in pea-green jail uniforms, entered the courtroom and bowed toward the family members, some of the victims’ relatives showed their hostility by making a low hissing sound.
当身穿豆绿色监狱制服的船员进入法庭、向遇难者家属鞠躬时，一些家属发出嘶嘶声向船员表示敌意。
Some of the relatives of the student victims wore identical yellow jackets that said: “We will remember. We will be always with you.” One mother wore a T-shirt bearing the names of a dozen students.
一些遇难学生的家属穿着相同的黄色夹克，夹克上印着：“我们不忘记。我们永远和你在一起。”一位母亲穿着印有十几个学生名字的T恤衫。
“The law is nonsense!” one of the fathers shouted as he stepped out of the courtroom, complaining that the punishment prosecutors were seeking for some of the crew members was too lenient.
“法律是无稽之谈！”一位父亲离开法庭时喊道，他抱怨检察官对一些船员要求的惩罚过轻。
The lawyers for the captain and three others accused of murder all argued against the charge, saying that their clients had no intention of killing the passengers. They also said the blame for the disaster should not be placed on the crew alone.
船长和其他三名被控犯有谋杀罪船员的律师都为他们做了反对该指控的辩词，称他们并没有杀死乘客的意图。律师还表示，这场灾难的责任不该只归咎于船员。
Crew members, the lawyers said, were also victims of a greedy ferry operator that had provided them with inadequate safety training and ignored their repeated warnings before the disaster about the overloading and instability of the ship. The ship had been remodeled to add passenger cabins to its upper decks, which investigators said left it dangerously top-heavy.
律师说，这些船员也是贪婪的渡轮经营商的受害者，经营商没有给他们提供足够的安全培训，没有听取船员在灾难发生前多次做出的对渡轮超载及船体不稳定的警告。这艘渡轮曾被改建，上层甲板增加了客舱，调查人员说，这给船只造成重心过高的危险。
When they were given a chance to make a final statement before the sentencing, 12 of the 15 crew members on trial spoke, all apologizing for the students’ deaths.
当他们有机会做出判决前的最后陈述时，15名受审船员中有12人在法庭上发了言，他们都为学生的死亡道歉。
“I am sorry. I will repent until the last day of my life,” said Mr. Lee, the captain. “When I look back, I feel nothing but shame.”
“我很抱歉。我会忏悔一生，直到我生命的最后一天，“船长李准石说。“面对过去，除了耻辱我别无它感。”
Many defendants wept during their final statements.
许多被告在做最后陈述时泣不成声。
“I have nothing left but shame, and I am so sorry I can’t raise my face,” said Park Han-gyeol, the ship’s third mate, who was in charge as the disaster began unfolding. “Now I remember what I should have done, but when it all happened so suddenly, I could do nothing but cry like a fool. I wish I could turn the clock back.”
“除了耻辱我什么感觉都没有，我非常抱歉，我再也没脸见人了，”三副朴汉洁（Park Han-gyeol，音译）说，灾难发生时她在开船。“现在我记得我那时应该做什么，但是，当一切发生得那么突然时，我什么都没做，只会像傻瓜一样地哭。我真希望时光能倒流。”