GWANGJU, South Korea — The captain and 14 other crew members of the South Korean ferry that sank in April, leaving 304 people dead or missing, went on trial here on Tuesday. The defendants faced the anger of victims’ relatives at the courthouse, where senior crew members denied the homicide charges against them.
韩国光州——今年4月沉没的韩国渡轮的船长及其他14名船员在本周二出庭受审。沉船事件共导致304人丧生或失踪。在法庭上，被告面临着遇难者家属的满腔怒火，高级船员当庭否认了针对他们的杀人指控。
Grieving relatives shouted “You are worse than beasts!” and “Murderer!” as the crew members, handcuffed and clad in yellow-green or blue prison uniforms, entered the district court in this city in southwestern South Korea for their first hearing. “You are not human!” some said.
当身穿黄绿色或蓝色囚服，戴着手铐的船员走进这座韩国西南部城市的地方法院接受第一次庭审时，悲痛的亲属叫嚷着“你们禽兽不如！”、“杀人犯！”另一些人喊到，“你们不是人！”
A fierce tussle erupted when courtroom guards tried to stop the father of a victim from carrying a placard with similar messages into the courtroom.
法警试图阻止一名遇难者的父亲携带写有类似字样的标语进入法庭，双方爆发了激烈的扭打。
The crew members face criminal charges, including murder and negligence, for abandoning the sinking ship before the passengers, who survivors and prosecutors said were repeatedly told to stay on the ferry and were trapped as it sank just off the southwestern tip of South Korea on April 16.
船员们面临的刑事指控包括杀人和渎职，因为他们赶在乘客前面，逃离了正在沉没的渡轮。幸存者和检察官表示，4月16日，当这艘渡轮在靠近韩国西南端的海域沉没时，乘客们被反复要求待在原地，于是他们被困在了船里。
Relatives of the victims sat in the spectators’ gallery — some of them with yellow mourning ribbons pinned to their chests. Several times during the four-hour hearing, family members interrupted the proceedings, shouting at the crew members and at their defense attorneys, who entered pleas of not guilty. One of the disruptions came when a defendant was accused of smiling.
遇难者的亲属坐在旁听席上，其中一些人胸前别着表达哀悼的黄丝带。四小时的庭审数次被家属打断，他们朝着进行无罪抗辩的船员及辩护律师大喊大叫。一名被告被指面露微笑，法庭由此再次陷入混乱。
All but one of the crew members had court-appointed lawyers defending them.
被控船员都由法庭指定的律师做辩护，只有一人除外。
The Sewol, a 6,825-ton ferry, was carrying 476 people, 325 of them high school students, on the morning of the disaster. So far 292 bodies, mostly students, have been found, with 12 still missing.
惨剧发生的那个早上，6825吨的渡轮“世越号”（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）上搭载着476人，其中有325人是高中生。目前当局已找到292具尸体，其中大部分是学生，另有12人依然下落不明。
“Since the accident, time has stopped for our families,” Kim Byong-kwon, 49, whose daughter died, said in a statement on behalf of the victims’ families that he read during the hearing. “Even today, when I see children in school uniforms, I imagine my daughter returning from school, saying ‘Dad, I am home!’ ”
今年49岁的金秉权（Kim Byong-kwon，音译）在船难中失去了女儿。他代表遇难者家属在庭审期间宣读了一份声明。声明中说道，“事故发生后，我们这些家庭的时间就停止了。即使到了今天，每当看见穿校服的孩子，我就会想起女儿从学校放学回家，对我说‘爸爸，我回来了’的情形。”
As some family members sobbed, Mr. Kim appealed to the crew members: “Please put yourselves in our position, imagining that your own children had died. Please tell us the truth.”
一些家属啜泣不已，金秉权对船员请求说：“请你们站在我们的处境，设想一下是自己的孩子死了。请把真相告诉我们。”
Park Jae-eok, the chief prosecutor, has charged the captain, Lee Jun-seok, 68, and three other senior crew members, with murder, saying that they did little to evacuate the passengers even though they had the means to do so. Instead, he said, they fled the ferry without telling the passengers to flee too, thus “leaving those who waited a further instruction from the crew under the cold sea.”
主控检察官朴载亿（Park Jae-eok，音译）指控68岁的船长李俊石（Lee Jun-seok，音译）和其他三名高级船员犯有谋杀罪。他说，尽管他们有办法疏散乘客，但却几乎什么都没做。他说，恰恰相反，他们弃船而逃，却没让乘客也逃生，于是，“那些等待船员给出下一步指示的乘客，葬身在了冰冷的海水里。”
After they were rescued by Coast Guard officials, Mr. Park said, these crew members did not tell them who they were or help them evacuate the passengers.
朴载亿说，这些船员被海岸警卫队救起时，没有报告自己的身份，也没让他们帮助疏散乘客。
During the hearing on Tuesday, none of the crew members spoke in their own defense. But their attorneys blamed the ferry operator, Chonghaejin Marine Company, for overloading the ferry, already made unstable by a renovation, and for inadequately lashing the cargo. The attorneys said that their clients felt some responsibility and were sorry that they abandoned the ship ahead of the passengers.
在周二的庭审中，没有一名船员发言替自己辩护。不过，他们的律师称，渡轮的经营方清海镇海运公司(Chonghaejin Marine Company)才是罪魁祸首，因为这艘渡轮经过改造后已经不够稳固，公司还让渡轮超载了。此外，货物的捆绑也不够牢固。辩护律师称，他们的当事人认为自己负有一定责任，并对自己先于乘客弃船逃生的行为感到歉疚。
The lawyers argued that the ship had tilted so suddenly and sharply that there was little for their clients to do aside from calling the Coast Guard and waiting for help to arrive.
律师们称，船身突然大幅倾斜，他们的当事人除了呼叫海岸警卫队，等待救援之外，没有什么能做的。
By the time the rescuers arrived, Coast Guard officials have said, it was too late. The ship had tilted too much and they could not board it, the officials said. The Coast Guard is also under investigation amid criticism that they fumbled in their rescue efforts.
海岸警卫队的官员表示，救援人员到达时，已经太晚了。官员们表示，船体严重倾斜，他们无法上船。海岸警卫队目前也在接受调查，他们被人批评在救援过程中存在失误。
“We should ask whether those who should take a bigger responsibility are shifting the blame onto the accused,” said Lee Kwang-jae, the defense lawyer for the captain, Mr. Lee.
船长李俊石的辩护律师李广载（Lee Kwang-jae，音译）说，“我们应该追问，那些应该承担更大责任的人，是否将责任推到了被告人身上。”
On April 16, Mr. Lee was filling in for the Sewol’s regular captain, who was on vacation, and he had no power to stop Chonghaejin from overloading the ship, his lawyer said. Mr. Lee also gave an order to evacuate the passengers, the lawyer said, without clarifying whether the instruction was broadcast.
这位律师表示，4月16日，李俊石是在为休假的“世越号”船长代班，他无权阻止清海镇让船只超载。律师称，李俊石也曾下令疏散乘客，但没有说明是否在广播中发布这一指令。
The lawyer for the ferry’s first mate, Kang Won-sik, also blamed the ferry operator. His attorney, Lim Joo-young, said that Mr. Kang had complained several times about routine overloading to Chonghaejin managers but was ignored.
大副康元植（Kang Won-sik，音译）的律师也对渡轮的经营方提出指责。辩护律师林株永（Lim Joo-young，音译）称，康元植曾多次向清海镇的管理人员抱怨再三发生的超载现象，但没有受到重视。
A few crew members disputed accidental homicide charges brought against them, saying that they had helped the Coast Guard to save several passengers.
有几名船员也反驳了针对他们的意外杀人指控，称他们帮助海岸警卫队救起了多名乘客。
A helmsman, Jo Joon-gi, said he had not made a sharp turn that caused the ship to list, as prosecutors said he had in their indictment. His attorney said that when Mr. Jo tried a normal turn to the right, as instructed by Park Han-gyeol, the shipmate in charge of the bridge at the time, the ferry turned more than intended. When he tried to right the ship, it kept turning to the right, his attorney said.
舵手赵俊奇（Jo Joon-gi，音译）称，他没有像检方在起诉书中说的那样，急剧转向导致船体倾斜。赵俊奇的律师表示，当他按照负责船桥的船员朴瀚洁（Park Han-gyeol，音译）的指示，尝试向右正常转向时，渡轮的转向程度超过预期。赵俊奇的律师称，当他努力使船恢复平稳时，船身仍在继续右转。
Ms. Park, 25, was so panicked as the ship listed that she just crouched at the corner of the bridge and cried, her lawyer said. On Tuesday, when it was her turn to stand up and identify herself to the presiding judge, Lim Joung-youb, she trembled with tears. Mr. Lim let her sit and calm herself before trying again after all the other crew members had identified themselves.
朴瀚洁的律师表示，船体倾斜时，25岁的朴瀚洁非常恐慌，蹲在船桥的角落里大哭。周二，轮到她出庭向审判长林庭烨（Lim Joung-youb，音译）表明身份时，眼含泪水，浑身颤抖。审判长让她坐下，冷静下来，等其他船员表明身份后再来一次。
“They are shameless,” Mr. Kim, the father who read the families’ statement, said after the hearing, accusing the crew members of lying.
宣读家属声明的金秉权在庭审结束后说，“他们很无耻。”并指责船员撒谎。