JEJU, South Korea —  In a political blow to President Park Geun-hye, a South Korean appeals court on Monday convicted a former government intelligence chief on charges of intervening in the 2012 vote that elected her president.
韩国济州——周一，韩国的一家上诉法院判定一名前政府情报负责人有罪，原因是他干预了2012年的大选投票，这对总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)造成了政治上的打击，因为她就是通过此次投票当选的。
The former intelligence chief, Won Sei-hoon, was arrested at the Seoul High Court and taken to jail after the court sentenced him to three years in prison.
这位名叫元世勋(Won Sei-Hoon)的前情报机构负责人在首尔高等法院(Seoul High Court)被逮捕，在法院判处其三年有期徒刑之后被送进了监狱。
The court did not comment on whether Mr. Won’s intervention helped Ms. Park get elected. But it said that agents from the government’s National Intelligence Service, under Mr. Won’s instruction, began an online smear campaign against Ms. Park’s political rivals ahead of the December 2012 vote, often depicting the rivals as North Korean sympathizers.
对于元世勋的干预行为是否对朴槿惠的胜选起到了帮助，这家法院没有置评。但它表示，在2012年12月的大选投票开始前，在元世勋的指示下，政府的国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)的特工们在网上开始了一场针对朴槿惠政治对手的抹黑运动，经常把后者描述为朝鲜的同情者。
Ms. Park defeated her main opponent, Moon Jae-in, by a margin of 3.5 percentage points or roughly one million votes. Some opposition politicians have insisted that the spy agency’s online smear campaign undermined the legitimacy of her victory by illegally swaying votes in her favor, although they have not officially claimed that it should be nullified.
朴槿惠以约100万张选票的优势，击败了主要对手文在寅(Moon Jae-in)，他们的支持率相差3.5个百分点。一些反对派的政治家坚称，情报机构的网络抹黑行动以对朴槿惠有利的方式非法地影响了投票结果，这削弱了她胜选的合法性，不过，他们没有正式提出投票结果应该被废除。
“The accused used the valuable function and organization of the National Intelligence Service in opposing specific political parties and politicians,” Justice Kim Sang-hwan said in his ruling. “The state agency directly intervened in online forums, systematically spreading opinions on key election issues while pretending to be ordinary citizens.”
“被告利用国家情报院的宝贵职能和机构来反对具体的政党和政治人物，”法官金星焕(Kim Sung-hwan)在裁决中说。“这个国家机构直接干预了网络论坛，伪装成普通公民，大规模地传播对关键选举议题的看法。”
The court also sentenced two former subordinates of Mr. Won to up to one and a half years in prison on similar charges. But their sentences were suspended.
法院还以相似的罪名，判处元世勋的两名前副手最长一年半的有期徒刑，但将缓期执行。
“What I did was for the nation and for the people,” Mr. Won told reporters on Monday.
“我所做的一切都是为了国家，为了人民，”元世勋周一对记者说。
In September, a lower court convicted Mr. Won of violating laws that banned public servants from meddling in politics but acquitted him of the more politically sensitive charge of intervening in a presidential election. At the time, he was sentenced to two and a half years in prison, but his sentence was suspended.
去年9月，一家级别较低的法院判定元世勋违反了禁止公务员干涉政治的若干项法律，但没有给他扣上干预总统大选的更具政治敏感性的罪名。当时，他被判处两年半的有期徒刑，但被缓期执行。
Neither Ms. Park’s office nor the intelligence agency commented on the verdict on Monday, which overturned the lower court’s decision.
周一的裁定推翻了这家较低级别法院的裁决。朴槿惠办公室和这家情报机构都没有对这一裁定发表评论。
Ms. Park has said that she did not order or benefit from the spy agency’s election-year Internet activities. For its part, the agency has denied trying to discredit opposition politicians, saying that its online messages were part of a legitimate psychological warfare campaign against pro-North Korean content.
朴槿惠表示，她没有要求这家情报机构在大选年里从事这些网络活动，也没有从中受益。而这家机构也已经否认自己试图诽谤反对派政治人物，称其网上信息是针对亲朝内容的合法心理战的一部分。
The court ruling on Monday came a day after Mr. Moon was elected as head of the main opposition party, the New Politics Alliance for Democracy.
这家法院周一做出裁决的一天前，文在寅当选了主要反对党新政治民主联合(New Politics Alliance for Democracy)的党首。
On Monday, his party called on former President Lee Myung-bak, under whose government Mr. Won served as spy chief, to apologize for the scandal.
周一，他的政党呼吁前总统李明博(Lee Myung-bak)为这桩丑闻道歉。元世勋曾担任李明博政府的情报负责人。
Ms. Park’s governing Saenuri Party reminded the opposition that the case still had to be reviewed by the Supreme Court, and warned against “a wasteful debate” over the legitimacy of the 2012 election results.
朴槿惠领导的执政党新国家党(Saenuri Party)提醒反对派，该案仍需经过大法院(Supreme Court)的审核，并警告说，不要对2012年大选结果的合法性进行“无意义的争论”。
Prosecutors indicted Mr. Won in June, saying that a secret team of National Intelligence Service agents had posted numerous messages on Twitter and other online forums to sway public opinion in favor of Ms. Park and her conservative governing party ahead of the parliamentary and presidential elections in 2012.
检方于去年6月对元世勋正式提出指控，称在2012年的议会和总统选举前，一个由国家情报院特工组成的秘密团队在Twitter和其他网络论坛上发布了大量信息，目的是影响舆论，使公众支持朴槿惠和她领导的保守派执政党。
Many of the messages merely lauded government policies, but many others ridiculed liberal critics of the government and of Ms. Park, including her rivals in the presidential election.
这其中的许多信息只是在赞美政府的政策，但也有许多信息嘲讽了政府和朴槿惠的自由派批评人士，包括她在大选中的竞争对手。
On Monday, the appeals court said that spy agents’ online comments meddling in the election sharply increased after Ms. Park won the governing party’s presidential nomination in August 2012.
周一，这家上诉法院称，在朴槿惠2012年8月被提名为执政党的总统候选人之后，情报特工干预大选的网络评论数量出现了激增。