SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea has determined that North Korea is capable of mounting a nuclear warhead on its medium-range Rodong ballistic missile, which could reach all of the South and most of Japan, a senior government official said on Tuesday.
韩国首尔─ 一位韩国高级政府官员在周二表示，该国已确认朝鲜有能力为其中程弹道导弹“芦洞”(Rodong)装载核弹头，此一型号的导弹射程可涵盖整个韩国以及大部分日本国土。
The government’s assessment, shared in a background briefing with representatives of foreign news media here, followed a recent claim by North Korea that it had “standardized” nuclear warheads small enough to be carried by ballistic missiles. Until Tuesday, South Korean government officials, like most of their American counterparts, had played down that claim.
韩国政府在一次背景资料简报会上和驻首尔的国外媒体分享了这份评估报告。朝鲜在不久前刚宣称他们的核弹头已经经过“标准化”处理，其尺寸小到足以供弹道导弹搭载。在本周二以前，韩国政府官员与大部分美国官员都认为朝鲜言过其实。
But after four recent nuclear tests by the North, the latest on Jan. 6, some nongovernmental analysts in South Korea have said that the North may have learned how to fit its medium-range Rodong missile with nuclear warheads, even though it may still be years away from building a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile that could target the continental United States.
不过朝鲜近来已做了四次核武测试，其中最后一次是在1月6号进行的。此后有些韩国非官方的分析家表示，朝鲜可能已经学会如何为他们的中程导弹芦洞加装核弹头，即便朝鲜要打造出能攻击美国本土的安装核弹头的洲际弹道导弹尚需数年时间。
Although the government official echoed that assessment on Tuesday, he added that South Korea had no evidence that the North had deployed such nuclear-tipped Rodong missiles.
虽然前述的韩国官员在周二发表了近似的评估结果，他也补充道韩国没有证据显示朝鲜已部属了这类有核弹头的芦洞导弹。
The missile, first deployed in the 1990s, can fly about 800 miles, which would put some United States military bases in South Korea and Japan within its range. It could carry a warhead weighing about 1,500 to 2,200 pounds, according to the South Korean military.
芦洞导弹在上世纪90年代首次启用，可飞行约800英里（约1300公里），这样的射程能够涵盖位于韩国与日本的某些美国军事基地。根据韩国军方的说法，该型导弹能携带一颗重量在1500到2200磅（680-1000公斤）之间的弹头。
North Korea test-launched two Rodong missiles last month, flouting United Nations resolutions that ban the country from developing or testing ballistic missile technology.
朝鲜无视联合国禁止该国发展与测试弹道导弹的制裁决议，在上个月试射了两枚芦洞导弹。
The tests took place days after the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, ordered more tests of ballistic missiles capable of delivering a nuclear warhead. Mr. Kim also recently visited a factory where he inspected what looked like a model nuclear warhead and long-range missile, according to photographs released in the country’s official media.
这些试射是在朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)下令测试更多可运载核弹头的弹道导弹的数日后进行的。根据朝鲜官方媒体放出的照片，金正恩近来也前往工厂视察了核弹头与长程飞弹的模型。
North Korea also said that Mr. Kim had overseen a successful test of “re-entry” technology, which is needed for a warhead on an intercontinental ballistic missile to survive the heat and vibrations while plunging through the atmosphere toward its target.
朝鲜也表示，金正恩还观看了一次成功的“重返大气层”模拟试验，这是发射加装弹头的洲际弹道导弹所必需的技术，让导弹在穿越大气层向目标俯冲时能耐得住高温与气流震荡。
There is continuing debate about how close North Korea has come to acquiring nuclear-tipped missiles. The country has never flight-tested a long-range missile.
朝鲜距离拥有核导弹到底有多远一直备受争议。该国从未试射过长程导弹。
After the North’s recent claims, the South Korean Defense Ministry issued a statement on March 9 saying it did not believe the North had achieved the miniaturization of a nuclear warhead. But the statement did not clarify whether it meant for long-range missiles or missiles of shorter ranges.
在朝鲜近来的宣告之后，韩国国防部在3月9号发表声明，表示他们不相信朝鲜已成功缩小了核弹头，不过该声明没有澄清它所指的是长程或其他较短程导弹的核弹头。
The Pentagon has also voiced skepticism. “We have not seen North Korea demonstrate capability to miniaturize a nuclear weapon, and again, put it on a ballistic missile,” Peter Cook, the Pentagon press secretary, said on March 15.
美国国防部也表达了怀疑之意。五角大楼新闻发言人彼得‧库克(Peter Cook)在3月15号表示：“我们并未看到朝鲜展现出缩小核武器以及把核弹头加装到弹道导弹上的能力。”
But one leading United States military commander, Adm. William E. Gortney, said during a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing last month that according to his assessments, the North Koreans “have the ability to put an ICBM in space and range the continental United States and Canada.”
不过美国高级指挥官、海军上将威廉‧E‧戈特尼(William E. Gortney)上个月在参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)的听证会上表示，根据他的分析，朝鲜“有能力让洲际弹道导弹升空，并且把美国本土与加拿大纳入射程之内。”
Although American intelligence officials have said that sort of attack would have “a very low probability at success,” Admiral Gortney said it was a “prudent decision” to assume that the North “has the capability to miniaturize a nuclear weapon and put it on an ICBM.”
虽然美国情报官员表示这类攻击“成功的可能性很低”，戈特尼上将仍表示，假设朝鲜“拥有缩小核弹头并将其加装到洲际弹道导弹上的能力”是一个“审慎的判断”。