JINDO, South Korea — The captain was among the first to flee. Only a couple of the 44 life rafts aboard were deployed. The hundreds of passengers were instructed over the intercom to “stay inside and wait” as the ship leaned to one side and began to sink, dragging scores of students down with it.
韩国珍岛——船长是最先逃离的人之一。船上的44个救生筏只有几个派上了用场。渡轮向一边倾斜并开始下沉，将数十名学生带入水中，相关人员却通过广播指示数百名乘客“留在船内等待”。
“I repeatedly told people to calm themselves and stay where they were for an hour,” Kang Hae-seong, the communications officer on the South Korean ferry that sank on Wednesday, said from his hospital bed. He added that he could not recall taking part in any evacuation drills for the ship, and that when a real emergency came, “I didn’t have time to look at the manual for evacuation.”
周三沉没的韩国渡轮的通讯官员姜海成（Kang Hae-seong，音译）躺在病床上说，“我多次告诉人们保持冷静，原地等待一个小时。”他还表示，他不记得曾参加过疏散演习，当出现真正的紧急情况时，“我来不及查阅疏散手册。”
It took two and a half hours for the ferry, the Sewol, to capsize and become submerged in the blue-gray waters off the southwestern tip of South Korea. Yet in that time, only 179 of the 475 people believed to have been on board were rescued. By Thursday evening, the confirmed death toll was 25.
“岁月号”(Sewol)渡轮倾覆并沉入韩国西南端蓝灰色海水，这个过程持续了两个半小时的时间。然而，在这段时间里，船上的475人中只有179人获救。截至周四晚间，确认的死亡人数达到了25人。
As rescuers battle bad weather and dwindling hopes to search for the 271 people still missing, most of them students, evidence is growing that human error contributed to one of South Korea’s worst disasters in recent decades.
救援人员遭遇了糟糕的天气，找到271名下落不明的乘客——大多数是学生——的希望越来越小，与此同时，越来越多的证据显示，韩国这场数十年来最严重的灾难是人为错误造成的。
Kim Su-hyun, a provincial coast guard chief, told reporters on Thursday that the ship’s captain, Lee Jun-seok, stood accused of violating his responsibilities by abandoning the ferry ahead of most of his passengers. Coast guard officials who questioned Mr. Lee on Thursday said they were reviewing possible criminal charges, while the police said they were investigating whether he had escaped aboard one of the few life rafts used.
海岸警卫队的地方负责人金洙贤（Kim Su-hyun，音译）周四告诉记者，船长李俊石（Lee Jun-seok，音译）面临渎职指控，因为他抢在大多数乘客之前弃船逃走。周四，负责讯问李俊石的海岸警卫队官员表示，他们正在查核可能的刑事指控。警方则表示，他们正在调查船长是不是乘救生筏逃走的，只有少量救生筏派上了用场。
“I can’t lift my face before the passengers and family members of those missing,” Mr. Lee said during a brief appearance before reporters on Thursday.
周四，李俊石在记者面前短暂露面时表示，“我无法抬头面对乘客及失踪人员的家人。”
But he provided little clarity on what led the 6,825-ton Sewol to lean so far to its side before sinking, and why so many aboard had been unable to escape.
但他没有澄清，这艘6825吨的渡轮为什么会在沉没之前向一边急剧倾斜，船上为什么有那么多人无法逃生。
For some maritime experts, the captain’s decision to abandon the ship and the crew’s emergency performance seemed to echo problems in the wreck of the Costa Concordia, an Italian cruise ship that ran aground in 2012, killing 32 people.
对于一些海事专家来说，船长的弃船决定和船员的应急表现似乎重现了意大利“协和号”（Costa Concordia）游轮事故中的问题，该游轮于2012年触礁，导致32人遇难。
James T. Shirley Jr., an accident investigator in Newtown, Pa., said that in the two and a half hours it took the ship to sink, the crew “certainly had enough time to get most of the people off.”
宾夕法尼亚州纽敦的事故调查员小詹姆斯·T·雪利(James T. Shirley Jr)表示，在渡轮慢慢沉没的两个半小时里，船员“绝对有足够的时间帮助大多数人逃离”。
“I don’t understand why the crew would be instructing passengers to stay inside the ship,” Mr. Shirley said. “I would think that if nothing else, they would be getting them outside with life jackets on so if it sank, they could at least get into the cold water with their jackets.”
“我不明白，船员为何会指示乘客待在船里，”雪利说。“我觉得，他们即便不做别的事情，至少也该让乘客穿上救生衣，跑到船舱外面。这样的话，就算船沉了，他们至少也可以穿着救生衣去面对冰冷的海水。”
Capt. William H. Doherty, a maritime safety expert at Nexus Consulting Group who commanded Navy and merchant ships, said there was “clearly a breakdown in safety training” on the South Korean ferry, a failure he said could be attributed to its officers and to Korean regulators.
Nexus咨询集团(Nexus Consulting Group)的海事安全专家威廉·H·多尔蒂(William H. Doherty)上校表示，这艘韩国渡轮“的安全训练明显非常失败”，这种失败可能是由高级船员及韩国监管人员造成的。多尔蒂曾指挥海军船舰及商船。
“When they issued a safety certification for the ship, they had to certify that the crew was trained,” Captain Doherty said, noting the communications officer’s admission that he had not taken part in an evacuation drill. “You have to satisfy yourself that this crew is trained in all emergency situations.”
“向该船发放安全认证时，他们必须确认船员都受过训练，”多尔蒂上校说，他指的是通讯官承认未曾参与疏散演习。“你必须确认，船员接受过处理各种紧急状况的训练。”
For the 325 students from Danwon High School who made up the bulk of the passengers, it was a trip they had been eagerly awaiting, a last chance for fun before a grueling year of studying for South Korea’s university entrance exam. Soon after the ferry left the port of Incheon on Tuesday night bound for the resort island of Jeju, they celebrated by launching fireworks from the deck.
乘客的主体是檀园高中(Danwon High School)的325名学生，这本是他们热切期待的一次旅行，是他们进入为全国高考而刻苦学习的一年之前，最后的一次娱乐机会。周二晚间，在渡轮驶离仁川港前往度假岛屿济州岛后不久，学生们为庆祝此行在甲板上点放了烟火。
According to survivors, the students were having a morning break after breakfast on Wednesday, roaming through the floors and snapping pictures on the deck, when the ship began tilting.
据幸存者透露，当船开始倾斜时，学生们刚吃完早饭，正在自由活动，他们在各层船舱漫步，还在甲板上拍照。
When the situation became critical, survivors said, many students were still on the third floor, where the cafeteria and game rooms were.
幸存者说，紧急情况出现之时，许多学生仍然在第三层，也就是餐厅和游戏室所在的地方。
“I don’t remember that there was any safety instruction before we boarded the ship,” said Kim Su-bin, 16, a Danwon student who survived by climbing out of the sinking ship and jumping into the water. “Life jackets were on the fourth floor where the sleeping cabins were, but those who were on the third floor at the time had no life jackets.”
“我不记得登船前有人对我们进行过安全指导，”金秀彬(Kim Su-bin，音译)说。这位16岁的檀园高中学生在船下沉时爬了出来，之后跳入水中，由此得救。“救生衣都在四层，那层是卧舱，但那些下沉时呆在三层的人没有救生衣。”
Investigators said the Sewol appeared to have made a sharp turn to the left around the time it began to tilt. It had been sailing slightly off its usual course, they said, and Mr. Lee, the captain, had apparently tried to steer it back. It was unclear why he had tried such a turn in waters known for their strong currents, or why the turn had caused the ship to lean.
调查人员称，“岁月号”在开始倾斜的时候似乎曾向左急转弯。他们说，它的航线一直与往常的路线稍有偏差，船长李俊石似乎曾尝试把它调整过来。目前尚不清楚他为何会在以水流湍急闻名的水域尝试这种转弯，以及这次转弯为何会使船身发生倾斜。
Inside the ferry, chaos unfolded, survivors said, as the walls and floor seemed to exchange positions. Bottles and dishes fell. The ship’s twisting stairways became almost impossible to negotiate. Passengers were tossed to one side. Trays and soup bowls overturned, said Song Ji-cheol, a college student who worked part-time in the cafeteria.
幸存者说，墙和地板似乎交换了位置，渡轮内一片混乱。瓶子和碗盘都掉了下来。渡轮的楼梯发生严重扭曲，根本无法通行。乘客也被甩到另一边。在渡轮餐厅打工的大学生宋志哲（Song Ji-cheol，音译）说，托盘和汤碗都打翻了。
“All of a sudden, we were submerged,” he said. “I tried to hold on to the tables, but they were moving around, too.”
他说，“突然之间，我们沉到了水下。我试图抓住桌子，但桌子也在移动。”
At some point, survivors said, the lights went out.
一些幸存者说，在这个过程中，灯全灭了。
“When the ship began tilting, there was a thudding noise, and I thought it was the noise made by students bumping into the walls,” Han Hee-min said on Thursday in a hospital in Ansan, the city south of Seoul where Danwon High School is. “I had a life jacket, so I floated. Some friends grabbed my leg, and I don’t know what happened to them.”
“船身开始倾斜时，我听到砰的一声，以为那是学生撞上了舱壁，”韩熙敏（Han Hee-min，音译）周四在安山市的一家医院里说，“我穿着救生衣，所以浮了上去。有些朋友抓住我的腿，但我不知道他们怎么样了。”安山在首尔南边，是檀园高中的所在地。
Grainy video footage taken with a smartphone and sent to a relative showed frightened passengers huddled in the corner of a room as a voice on the ship’s intercom urged people to “stay inside and wait because the cabins are safer.” Gwon Ji-hyuck, 16, said he had heard that broadcast as well.
有人用智能手机录下低分辨率的视频发给了亲属。这段视频显示，受惊的乘客蜷缩在一个房间的角落里，一个声音在船上的内部广播中呼吁大家“留在舱内等待，舱内更安全”。16岁的权姬赫（Gwon Ji-hyuck，音译）说，他也听到了那个广播。
Han Sang-hyuk, 16, blamed the crew’s instructions for the high number of missing people, saying that those who stayed in their rooms or were caught in small alleyways between corridors would not have been able to escape.
16岁的学生韩相史（Han Sang-hyuk，音译）认为，失踪人数这么多，原因是渡轮船员引导不力。他说，呆在舱里和挤在狭窄走道里的乘客不大可能逃出来。
Alan Loynd, a sea disaster investigator and the chairman of the International Tugmasters Association, would not comment directly on the crew’s decisions. But “as a general rule,” he said, “if a ferry started listing, I wouldn’t be staying below decks.”
海难调查人员、国际拖船协会(International Tugmasters Association)主席阿兰·洛因德(Alan Loynd)拒绝直接评论船员的决定。但是“一般情况下”，他说，“如果渡轮开始倾斜，我是不会待在甲板下面的。”
The communications officer, Mr. Kang, 32, said that he and another crew member had been forced to make a quick decision. They thought that if passengers fled in a panicked rush, it could make matters worse, he said.
渡轮上的通讯官员、32岁的姜海成说，事发之时，他和另一名船员不得不迅速做出决定。他说，他们认为如果乘客出于恐慌而匆忙逃跑，事情可能会更糟。
Shin Seong-hee, a Danwon student, was among those who heeded the advice. In a text message she sent to her father, she said the crew had told her that “it was more dangerous to move.”
檀园高中学生申成熙（Shin Seong-hee，音译）是遵守指令的人之一。她在发给父亲的短信中说，船员告诉她“在船上走动会更危险”。
Her father texted back, “I know the rescuers are coming but why don’t you try to come outside?”
父亲回短信说：“我知道救援人员正在赶往现场，但是你为什么不想办法逃出来？”
“I can’t because the ship is tilting too much,” she said, in a text displayed by her sister. Ms. Shin has not been heard from since.
“不行，因为船身倾斜得太厉害了，”她用短信回复说。她的姐姐把这条短信拿给记者看。之后，再也没人听到申成熙的消息。
Some survivors gave accounts of professionalism and self-sacrifice by crew members. Kim Su-bin, the Danwon student who climbed out and jumped into the water, thanked Park Ji-young, a crew member who was found dead on Wednesday, for calming students and staying behind without a life jacket after helping students escape.
有些幸存者讲述了船员的专业风范和自我牺牲精神。爬出船舱跳进水里的檀园高中学生金秀彬对朴智英(Park Ji-young)表示了感谢。这名船员当时一直在安慰学生，还在没穿救生衣的情况下帮助学生逃生，并且留在了最后。周三，人们发现这名船员已经遇难。
“Bring my child back alive!” some parents yelled on Thursday when President Park Geun-hye visited a gymnasium that local officials had turned into a shelter for grieving families. Ms. Park promised “all available resources” for the rescue efforts, and “a thorough investigation and stern punishment for those responsible.”
周四，当朴槿惠总统来到珍岛的一个体育馆时，一些家长大喊，“把我的孩子活着带回来！”该体育馆已被当地官员用作安置悲伤家属的场所。朴槿惠承诺将“所有可用的资源”投入营救，并承诺“彻底调查并严厉惩处事故责任人”。
An editorial in the country’s leading conservative daily newspaper, Chosun Ilbo, which has been mostly supportive of Ms. Park’s government, denounced it for “floundering.”
韩国主要的保守派报纸《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)在一篇社论中指责朴槿惠政府“乱作一团”，虽然该报基本对朴槿惠政府持支持态度。
“Above all, the people must have felt deeply that South Korea is a country that doesn’t value human lives,” it said. “Hundreds of passengers sank with the ship, but its captain and most of its crew came out alive.”
“首先，人民一定会深深地觉得，韩国是一个不重视人命的国家，”该报表示。“数百名乘客与船一起沉了下去，船长和大多数船员却活着逃了出来。”
Jeon Young-jun, 61, a crew member, said the chief engineer had told his team to desert the ship immediately, contrary to the intercom instructions for passengers.
61岁的船员全永俊（Jeon Young-jun，音译）说，事发当时，轮机长让他的团队立刻弃船，这与发给乘客的广播指令完全不同。
“My colleagues and I were sure we would die if we didn’t get out immediately, because we knew that the ship tilting about 48 degrees means big danger,” he said. “There was nothing else to think about.”
“同事和我都确定，不赶紧出来就会死，因为我们知道，如果船身倾斜到了48度左右，那就非常危险，”他说。“当时根本想不到其他事情。”