In 1985, a 12-year-old Euny Hong moved with her family from suburban Chicago to Seoul, South Korea. Not just any place in Seoul, South Korea, but a neighborhood known as Apgujeong — the wealthiest, most exclusive cluster of addresses in the Gangnam district. The Hongs, in short, went “Gangnam Style” 27 years before it was a thing. And when it comes to South Korean history — as with meme superstardom — three decades is a long time.
1985年，12岁的洪又妮随全家从韩国首尔搬到芝加哥郊区。她原来住在首尔江南区的狎鸥亭，这可不是普通的地方，而是最富有、最高级的住宅区。简单说吧，洪家在《江南Style》(Gangnam Style)走红27年前就是“江南Style”了。对于韩国历史来说，30年是很长的一段时间，当然对于网络明星现象来说也是如此。
Hong’s new book, “The Birth of Korean Cool: How One Nation Is Conquering the World Through Pop Culture,” loosely follows South Korea’s growth from the mid-60s, when the country’s per capita G.D.P. was less than Ghana’s, to now. Today, South Korea is the 15th-largest economy in the world. From Psy’s “Gangnam Style” video to the chips that Samsung furnishes for Apple’s iPhones, the book explores the confluence of factors that make for Korea’s pop-­cultural perfect storm.
洪又妮的新书《韩酷的诞生：一个国家是怎样通过流行文化征服了世界》(The Birth of Korean Cool: How One Nation Is Conquering the World Through Pop Culture)宽泛地追溯了韩国自20世纪60年代中期以来的发展，当时韩国的人均GDP水平比加纳还低。如今，韩国是世界第15大经济体。从鸟叔(Psy)的《江南Style》视频到三星为苹果手机提供的芯片，这本书探讨了种种因素如何汇集在一起，令韩国的流行文化成为完美风暴。
Korea’s vitality lies in hallyu — a wave of cool so pervasive that President Obama name-checked it in a speech. Hong asserts that Korea’s rise is attributable to what the Harvard political scientist Joseph Nye calls “soft power”; the country wields influence not through military might but “by peddling a desirable image.” Korea’s government has earmarked a billion-dollar investment fund dedicated to fostering popular culture, and for Koreans raised abroad during the ’70s and early ’80s like Hong and myself, the notion that Seoul has become this fashionable is startling and deeply fascinating. After all, Korea was nicknamed the Hermit Kingdom by 19th-century Western explorers for its reluctance to play with others.
韩国的活力来自于“韩流”——这股酷浪潮流行甚广，连奥巴马总统都在讲演里提过。洪又妮说，韩国的崛起要归功于哈佛政治学家约瑟夫·奈(Joseph Nye)所谓的“软实力”；这个国家输出影响力不是通过军事力量，而是通过“兜售惹人喜爱的形象”。韩国政府拨款10亿美元发展流行文化，洪又妮，乃至我自己这样七八十年代在海外长大的韩国人已经有了“首尔在变得时尚起来”这种诱人的想法。要知道，19世纪的西方探险家们曾经给韩国起了个外号“隐士之国”，觉得它不愿意和别的国家打交道。
“Korean Cool” chronicles the author’s period of trying to fit in. She recalls toilets that don’t flush, corporal punishment and a Confucian catechism so entrenched that defying your parents results in agonizing shame. Just as Western kids feared the boogeyman, Korean children abroad lived under the constant threat of being “sent back to Korea” for delinquent behavior like smoking cigarettes or getting a C. The chapter on academic pressure rightfully dovetails into harrowing statistics of suicide, “the most common cause of death for Koreans under the age of 40.”
《韩酷》按时间顺序记载了作者努力适应西方的过程。她回忆起不能冲水的厕所、体罚和儒学教义，这一切在韩国父母们头脑中根深蒂固，深深影响了他们，带来令人痛苦的羞辱。正如同西方孩子害怕恶魔，海外长大的韩国孩子们则长年生活在“被送回韩国”的阴影之下，如果被抓到吸烟或者考试得了C，就会听到这样的威胁。这本书中关于学习压力的一章正好吻合了可怕的高自杀率，“自杀是40岁以下的韩国人最常见的死因。”
Hong views all of this through the slightly skewed perspective of a tween navigating a new curriculum and a disorienting national identity. Much of the awkward self-consciousness is compounded by noonchi — the Korean art of accurately gauging the infinitesimal cues of any situation in order to avoid social blunders. Missteps betray your standing as a tourist in the motherland, which results in a great deal of scorn and attendant humiliation.
描述这一切的时候，洪又妮的视角略有偏差，介乎一个努力适应新课程的12岁女孩与迷失了国家身份的人之间。这种笨拙的自我意识与韩国式的“察言观色”混合在一起——在任何情况下都得细心观察最小的细节，避免在社交中出丑。一旦出错，就会暴露出你不过是这个国家的过客，会让你遭到许多轻蔑，还有随之而来的羞辱。
Rich in personal anecdotes and original reporting, much of the book warrants enthusiastic marginalia from Korean ­expatriates or inquisitive foreigners. The chapter on han, the very Korean rancor that stems from 400 invasions and Japan’s rule from 1910 to 1945, is a gem; it opens with a quotation from Ian Fleming’s James Bond classic “Goldfinger”: Koreans, Fleming wrote, “are the cruelest, most ruthless people in the world.” Some of us refer to it as “kimchi temper,” and an open discussion of its provenance is a particular thrill. Hong finds that “many Koreans ascribe Korean success to han,” even though others claim that han can kill you: There’s even a medically recognized disease called hwa-byong, which means “anger illness.”
书中有很多个人趣事和第一手叙事，还有很多来自在韩国的外国人或是爱管闲事的外国人对韩国的热情评论。关于“han”这个字眼的一章尤其精彩。“han”这个词特指韩国人对于被侵略了400年的历史，乃至1910年至1945年的日本统治的怨恨。这一章始于伊恩·弗莱明(Ian Fleming)在经典詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)小说《金手指》(Goldfinger)里的一句话：“地球上最冷酷无情的，就是高丽人。”我们有人觉得这种憎恨是我们的“泡菜脾气”，并不介意讨论它起源于一种特殊的恐惧。洪又妮发现，“很多韩国人说，韩国人是‘han’的产物”，但也有人说‘han’可能会杀死你——有一种医学上承认的病名叫“火病(hwa-byong)”，也就是“郁闷得不得了生的病”。