SEOUL, South Korea — Defying both China and Japan, South Korea announced on Sunday that it was expanding its air patrol zone for the first time in 62 years to include airspace over the East China Sea that is also claimed by Beijing and Tokyo.
韩国首尔——韩国周日宣布要扩展本国的防空识别区，使之包括中日两国政府都有主权主张的空域，此举是韩国62年来第一次扩展此区域，同时挑战了中国和日本。
South Korea’s expanded “air defense identification zone” was the latest sign of a broadening discord among the Northeast Asian neighbors, who are already locked in territorial and historical disputes.
东北亚各国此前已因领土和历史问题陷入争议，分歧日益扩大，韩国扩大“防空识别区”的做法是这些分歧的最新体现。
With South Korea’s newly expanded zone, the air defense zones of all three countries now overlap over a submerged reef called Ieodo in South Korea and Suyan Rock in China. The reef is controlled by South Korea, which maintains a maritime research station there, but China also claims it. The seabed around the reef is believed to be rich in natural gas and minerals deposits.
韩国的做法使中日韩三国的防空识别区在一处暗礁上空产生重叠。韩国称这处暗礁为离於岛，中国称之为苏岩礁。韩国目前控制着这处暗礁，还在这里设置了一个海洋研究站，但中国也对其有主权主张。据信，暗礁周围的海床富含天然气和其他矿藏。
The South Korean move came two weeks after China stoked regional tensions by unilaterally expanding its own air patrol zone to partly overlap with South Korea’s and include airspace over the reef. The expanded Chinese air control zone also covers a set of East China Sea islands, called Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese, which are at the heart of a territorial feud between Japan and China.
两周之前，中国单方面宣布扩大其防空识别区，扩大后的防空区与韩国的防空识别区部分重叠，并且覆盖了前述暗礁上方空域，地区争议由此升温。扩大后的中国防空识别区也覆盖了东海的一些岛屿，这些岛屿是中日领土争端的核心，在中国称钓鱼岛，在日本称尖阁诸岛。
The airspace disputes were a major topic when Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. visited Japan, China and South Korea last week.
前述空域争端也是美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)上周访问日中韩三国时的主要议题。
With its announcement on Sunday, South Korea expanded its air defense zone more than 300 kilometers, or 186 miles, to the south. It said its new zone would take effect in a week. There was no immediate response from Beijing or Tokyo.
周日宣布前述消息之后，韩国将其防空识别区向南延伸了300多公里。韩国还表示，这个新的防空识别区将在一周内生效。中日政府尚未立即对此做出回应。
The expanded air defense zone follows the boundaries of South Korea’s existing “flight information region,” an area assigned to South Korea for civilian air traffic control under an agreement with the International Civil Aviation Organization. It will have no impact on civilian flights, said Kim Min-seok, a spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry.
扩大的防空识别区将与韩国现有的“飞行情报区”范围一致。根据与国际民用航空组织(International Civil Aviation Organization)签订的协议，该区域的民用航空交通由韩国负责管辖。韩国国防部发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)说，此举不会对民航飞行造成影响。
But the announcement of the expanded zone raises the risk of an accidental military clash in the region. A military plane entering another country’s air defense identification zone must notify that country in advance. If it fails to do so, the country operating the zone may order it to leave, or dispatch military jets to confront the intruding aircraft.
但是，韩国宣布扩大防空识别区的做法使该地区面临发生意外军事冲突的危险。按规定，进入他国防空识别区的军用飞机必须提前通知该国。如果违反了这个规定，控制该区域的国家就可以命令它离开，或者派军机来拦截闯入的飞机。
Maj. Gen. Chang Hyok, a senior policy coordinator at the South Korean Defense Ministry, said Sunday that his government had explained its new air patrol zone to China and Japan. President Park Geun-hye also discussed it with Mr. Biden on Friday.
韩国国防部高级政策协调官张赫少将(Maj. Gen. Chang Hyok)周日表示，韩国政府已经向中国和日本说明了它的新防空识别区。韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)周五也与拜登讨论了这个问题。
“Our top priority is to prevent accidental military clashes in the area,” General Chang said at a news briefing.
张赫少将在媒体吹风会上说，“我们的首要任务是防止该区域发生意外军事冲突。”
The State Department offered support for South Korea’s approach, saying that keeping open the lines of communication with China and Japan “avoids confusion for, or threats to, civilian airlines.”
美国国务院(State Department )表示了对韩国此举的支持，称保持与中、日沟通渠道畅通能“防止民用航空公司感到困惑或受到威胁”。
“The United States has been and will remain in close consultation with our allies and partners in the region to ensure their actions contribute to greater stability, predictability, and consistency with international practices,” said Jen Psaki, a State Department spokeswoman.
“美国一直并将继续与该地区的盟友和合作伙伴密切磋商，以确保它们的行动有助于提高稳定性和可预测性，更符合国际惯例，”国务院女发言人珍·帕莎其(Jen Psaki)说。
When China declared its new air defense zone on Nov. 23 and demanded that planes flying in the area first notify Chinese authorities, both Japan and South Korea immediately rejected it. Their military aircraft have since flown through the disputed airspace without informing China.
中国于11月23日宣布设立新的防空识别区，并要求飞越该识别区的飞机提前知会中国当局，日本和韩国随即表示拒绝接受。从那时以来，日韩两国的军用飞机都曾飞越该争议空域，并且没有通知中国。
The United States has also flown two B-52 long-range bombers through the contested airspace, a move seen as a warning by Washington that it would defy what it considered a provocative attempt by China to expand its control over airspace in the region.
美国也派了两架B-52远程轰炸机飞越该争议空域，此举被视作华盛顿发出的警告，表明美国认为中国的做法是试图扩大对该地区空域控制权的挑衅性举动，并且会对中国的做法发出挑战。
South Korea’s air defense zone was first established in March 1951 by the United States Pacific Air Forces command, which wanted to guard against China, which had just joined the Korean War.
韩国防空识别区最初于1951年3月由美国太平洋空军(United States Pacific Air Forces)司令部划定，当时是为了提防刚刚加入朝鲜战争的中国。
Until China expanded its air defense zone, the sky over the submerged reef of Ieodo was covered only by Japan’s air control zone. South Korea did not attempt to expand its air patrol zone over the reef, partly for fear that such a move might prompt Japan to claim the airspace over a disputed set of islets off the eastern coast of South Korea.
中国扩大自己的防空识别区之前，覆盖暗礁离于岛上空的只有日本的防空识别区。韩国此前没有尝试将自己的防空识别区延伸至暗礁上空，部分是因为韩国担心，这么做可能会促使日本宣称对韩国东海岸一系列争议小岛上方的空域拥有管辖权。
The South Korean-controlled islets, called Dokdo in Korea and Takeshima in Japan, are the source of another long-running territorial disagreement between the nations.
前述小岛由韩国实际控制，在韩国被称作独岛，在日本被称作竹岛，是两国之间另一项长期领土争端的源头。
Under Ms. Park, South Korea has emphasized building what it calls a “strategic cooperative partnership” with China, by far its largest trading partner. It also recognizes the growing importance of Beijing’s role in international efforts to curb North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. Ms. Park has met President Xi Jinping of China twice, but the territorial and historical controversies rooted in Japan’s regional aggression in the early 20th century have kept her from meeting Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe.
在朴槿惠的领导下，韩国着力同迄今仍是其最大贸易伙伴的中国建立“战略性合作伙伴关系”。此外，韩国也承认，中国在国际社会遏制朝鲜核武器计划的行动中所起的作用日益重要。朴槿惠已同中国国家主席习近平举行过两次会晤，与此同时，由于日本上世纪初亚洲扩张遗留下的领土和历史争议，朴槿惠迄今没有与日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)会面。
China’s attempt to police additional airspace over the East China Sea has highlighted a potentially volatile dispute between China and South Korea. The South Korean Navy is already building a $970 million base naval base in Jeju, an island off the southern coast of South Korea, to protect shipping lanes for South Korea’s oil-dependent, export-driven economy as well as to respond quickly to any dispute with China over the submerged reef.
中国试图管辖东海上空更多空域的举动，突显中韩之间存在一场可能会变化无常的争端。韩国海军已经开始在本国南部海滨的济州岛修建一处投资9.7亿美元（约合60亿元人民币）的海军基地，既是为了保护依赖石油和出口的韩国经济所需的航道，也是为了能在前述暗礁引发中韩争端时迅速做出反应。