SEOUL, South Korea — In the latest blow to the image of South Korea’s National Intelligence Service, a court on Tuesday convicted two of its counterintelligence officials of fabricating Chinese government documents to build a spy case against a refugee from North Korea.
韩国首尔——这里的一家法院周二判处两名反间谍官员有罪，罪名是捏造中国政府文件，以支持对一个朝鲜难民的间谍罪立案，这是对韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)形象的一次最新打击。
A 48-year-old agent, who was identified only by his family name, Kim, was sentenced to two and a half years in prison. A 54-year-old former head of the spy agency’s counterintelligence investigations was sentenced to one and a half years.
这两位反间谍官员中的一位现年48岁，法院只透露了他姓金，他被判处两年半有期徒刑。该情报部门54岁的前反间谍调查负责人被判处一年半有期徒刑。
They were accused of faking a set of immigration documents, ostensibly issued by the Chinese government, to build a spy case against Yu Woo-sung, an ethnic Chinese from North Korea who defected to South Korea in 2004.
他们被指控伪造了一组边境记录，谎称是中国政府的，用其作为针对余吴松（Yu Woo-sung，音译）间谍案的证据，余先生是在朝鲜居住的华侨，于2004年叛逃到韩国。
The agents “seriously obstructed the function of the criminal justice of the country,” Kim Woo-soo, a judge at the Seoul Central District Court, said in his verdict on Tuesday. “They betrayed the trust the people placed in the National Intelligence Service when it gave it both power and responsibility.”
首尔中央地方法院法官金宇洙（Kim Woo-soo，音译）在周二宣布判决时说，这两位官员“严重妨碍了国家的刑事司法功能。他们违背了人民对国家情报院的信任，是人民把权力和责任赋予国家情报院的。”
When he arrived in South Korea, Mr. Yu told officials here that he was a North Korean so that he could qualify for the South Korean citizenship and resettlement aid granted to defecting North Koreans. In truth, Mr. Yu, now 33, was a fourth-generation ethnic Chinese in the North and had carried a Chinese passport with the Chinese name of Liu Jiagang. Yu Woo-sung was the Korean name he adopted in the South.
余先生到达韩国时，他告诉当地官员，他是朝鲜人，这样他就可以有资格获得韩国公民权，并可得到韩国为脱北者提供的安置帮助。事实上，现年33岁的余先生是生活在朝鲜的第四代华侨，他持有中国护照，上面的名字是刘家钢（Liu Jiagang，音译）。余吴松是他在韩国用的朝鲜名字。
The National Intelligence Service caught up with him early last year, when it accused him of spying for North Korea.
国家情报院在去年年初将他逮捕，指控他是朝鲜间谍。
It built its case largely on confessions it said Mr. Yu’s sister from North Korea, Liu Jiali, had made after she entered South Korea in 2012, also pretending to be a North Korean refugee. The intelligence agency said Mr. Yu had made secret trips to North Korea after his arrival in the South and had been recruited as a spy by the North’s Department of State Security.
国家情报院对他的指控在很大程度上是建立在其所说的余先生来自朝鲜的妹妹刘家丽（Liu Jiali，音译）的供述之上的，那是她在2012年冒充朝鲜难民进入韩国后做的。情报部门称，余先生来到韩国后曾几次秘密前往朝鲜，他已被朝鲜的国家安全保卫部招募为间谍。
The tables turned against the agency when Mr. Yu’s sister later told a news conference organized by human rights lawyers in Seoul that she had been coerced to make false accusations against her brother while being held for 179 days in the Joint Interrogation Center south of Seoul, in near isolation and without legal representation.
后来情况出现了对情报部门不利的转变。余先生的妹妹在首尔的人权律师组织的一次新闻发布会上说，她被迫对哥哥做了不实指控，她在首尔南边的联合审讯中心被单独关押了179天，其间未曾得到律师的帮助。
In August last year, a court in Seoul threw out a spy charge against Mr. Yu, rejecting his sister’s confessions as evidence because it said she was never apprised of her right to remain silent. It also called her statements inconsistent and implausible. It gave Mr. Yu a suspended sentence for lying about his nationality.
去年八月，首尔的一家法院拒绝对余先生的间谍指控立案，拒绝接受他妹妹的供词为证据，法院说，因为她从未被告知有权保持沉默。法院还称她的陈述前后不一致，令人难以置信。法院因余先生在国籍问题上撒谎判处他有期徒刑，缓期执行。
The spy agency appealed and presented the appeals court with what it called official Chinese records on Mr. Yu’s border crossings into North Korea. In February, however, the Chinese Embassy in Seoul told the court that the Chinese records the spy agency had submitted were “faked.”
情报部门向上诉法院提出上诉，并提交其称之为中国官方的余先生出入朝鲜边境的记录。然而今年二月，中国在首尔的大使馆说，该情报机构提交的中国记录是“假的”。
Opposition parties and civic groups have accused the agency of reviving old practices from the era of military rule, using coercion and fabricated evidence to concoct spy cases to the benefit of those in power. President Park Geun-hye apologized over the scandal in April and later replaced her intelligence chief.
韩国的反对党和民间组织指责该情报机构试图恢复军人统治时代的旧做法，用强行逼供和捏造证据编造间谍案，为当权者的利益服务。朴槿惠总统在四月对丑闻表示道歉，后来还撤换了自己情报部门的负责人。
The intelligence service has been dogged by a series of scandals. Last month, Won Sei-hoon, its former director, was convicted of meddling in domestic politics when he ran a team of agents who posted numerous online comments criticizing Ms. Park’s domestic rivals, including opposition candidates, ahead of her election in late 2012.
韩国情报部门受到了一系列丑闻的困扰。上个月，国家情报院前院长元世勋(Won Sei-Hoon)因插手国内政治而获刑，他指使一组情报员在网上发表评论，批评朴槿惠的国内竞争对手，其中包括她在2012年底当选总统前的反对派候选人。
Mr. Yu’s case also brought attention to the agency’s Joint Interrogation Center. In 2010, South Korea changed its laws to allow the center to keep and question fresh arrivals from the North for as long as six months, twice the previous limit. The measure was taken amid fear that North Korea was planting spies among migrants bound for the South.
余先生的案子也引起人们对该机构的联合审讯中心的关注。2010年，韩国曾修改了法律，允许该中心对刚从朝鲜到来的人关押询问6个月，这是以前时限的两倍。采取这项措施是因为人们害怕朝鲜在向移民韩国的人中安插间谍。
“The problem with the Joint Interrogation Center is that there is no independent monitoring and control,” Mr. Yu’s lawyer, Kim Yong-min, said in a recent interview. “For refugees who have no relatives in the South, there is no way of knowing whether they are held there. It’s a facility where there is a high probability of human rights abuse and people can easily be framed as spies.”
“联合审讯中心的问题是，没有独立的监督和控制，”余先生的律师金永民（Kim Yong-min，音译）在最近的一次采访中说。“对于在韩国没有亲属的难民来说，人们无法知道他们是否被关在那里。那是一个有很大可能性发生侵犯人权问题的设施，人们很容易地被诬陷为间谍。”