SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea on Monday proposed high-level talks with North Korea to discuss holding a new round of reunions of aging Koreans separated by the Korean War six decades ago.
韩国首尔——韩国周一提出与朝鲜进行高级别对话，讨论让被六十年前的朝鲜战争分裂的家庭的老年成员举行新一轮团聚。
The proposal came on the same day that South Korea pledged to donate $13.3 million to help the World Food Program and the World Health Organization provide nutrients, medicine and other urgent assistance for malnourished babies and nursing mothers in the North.
就在提议出来的同一天，韩国承诺捐献1330万美元（相当于8200万元人民币），以帮助世界粮食计划署和世界卫生组织为朝鲜营养不良的婴儿和乳母提供营养、医药和其他紧急援助。
In a message delivered across the border on Monday, the South’s Unification Ministry suggested that the two governments hold high-level talks on Aug. 19 at Panmunjom, a border village where the armistice ending the Korean War was signed in 1953.
在周一跨境提交的信息中，韩国统一部建议，两国政府于8月19日在板门店举行高层会谈，这个边境村庄是1953年签署结束朝鲜战争的停战协议的地方。
The two Koreas held their last high-level meeting in February. During that meeting, they put aside several years of high tensions incited by the North’s nuclear tests and armed provocations against the South and reached an agreement that allowed hundreds of people from both sides to meet their long-lost relatives for the first time since the war.
朝鲜和韩国之间最近一次高层会议是在今年二月份。在那次会议上，他们撇开了几年来朝鲜的核试验和针对韩国的武力挑衅引起的高度紧张局面，达成了一项协议，让双方的数以百计的人民得以与他们失散多年的亲人在朝鲜战争后第一次见面。
South Korea hopes to arrange a new round of family reunions around Chuseok, the Korean Thanksgiving holiday on Sept. 8 that is a traditional time for family gatherings.
韩国希望在秋夕前后安排新一轮家庭团聚，9月8日的秋夕是韩国的感恩节，是家庭聚会的传统节日。
There was no immediate response from the North.
朝鲜尚未立刻做出回应。
The reunions in February were the first in three years. Since then, North Korea has escalated its hostility toward the South, calling its president, Park Geun-hye, a prostitute. The country has also conducted unusually frequent tests of missiles and rockets in recent weeks.
二月份的团聚是三年来的第一次。从那以后，朝鲜加剧了与韩国的敌对局面，称韩国总统朴槿惠为娼妓。朝鲜还在最近几周进行了异常频繁的导弹和火箭测试。
But at the same time, North Korea has made overtures for reconciliation. It recently agreed to send a delegation to the Asian Games to be held in the South this fall, as well as reopen an investigation into the fates of Japanese citizens believed to have been kidnapped by the North decades ago.
但与此同时，朝鲜做出和解姿态。该国最近同意派遣一个代表团参加今年秋季在韩国举办的亚洲运动会，还重启一项调查，以确定几十年前据认被朝鲜绑架的日本公民的命运。
Family reunions remain a highly emotional issue for Koreans, and they are considered a key barometer of relations on the divided Korean Peninsula. No telephone, letter or email exchanges are allowed between the citizens of the two Koreas while thousands of people, mostly in their 80s or older, wait for a chance to see their family members before they die.
家庭团聚对朝鲜半岛的人来说仍是一个让人高度情绪激动的问题，家庭团聚被认为是分裂的朝鲜半岛南北关系的一个重要晴雨表。朝鲜半岛南北双方的公民之间不允许通讯，没有电话、信件或电子邮件的往来，同时成千上万的人，其中大多是80岁以上的老年人，在等待着他们死之前见家庭成员一面的机会。