SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye, whose approval ratings have fallen since an April ferry disaster that left hundreds dead, suffered a new political blow Tuesday as her second consecutive nominee for prime minister stepped aside, amid a furor over his suggestion that Korea’s colonization by Japan had been “God’s will.”
韩国首尔——韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的支持率在周二遭到新的政治打击，她的支持率自4月份的一次渡轮灾难以来就不断下滑，这次的原因是她的第二位总理提名人因曾暗示朝鲜半岛被日本殖民是“上帝的安排”，引起公愤，而被迫退出。
“Since I was appointed as prime minister, this country has plunged even deeper into severe confrontation and divide,” Moon Chang-keuk said at a news conference. “I have decided that I should help President Park by stepping down of my own will.”
“自从我被提名为首相以来，我国在严重的对抗和分裂中陷得更深，”文昌克(Moon Chang-keuk)在一次新闻发布会上说。“我决定以自愿退出的方式，来帮助朴槿惠总统。”
Mr. Moon, once a well-known conservative newspaper columnist, was Ms. Park’s second nominee for prime minister to withdraw before his confirmation hearings in the National Assembly could even begin. The first, Ahn Dae-hee, a former Supreme Court justice, stepped aside last month because of a controversy over his post-retirement earnings.
文昌克曾是一位知名的保守派报纸专栏作家，他是朴槿惠提名的第二位总理候选，国会(National Assembly)对他的确认听证还没来得及开始，他就放弃了提名。朴槿惠提名的第一位总理候选是安大熙(Ahn Dae-hee)，曾任最高法院法官，他退休后的收入引起争议，因此在上月放弃提名。
Each had been nominated to replace Prime Minister Chung Hong-won, who resigned over the government’s handling of the April 16 ferry sinking, in which more than 300 people were killed, most of them students.
他们分别都是接替前任总理郑烘原(Chung Hong-won)的提名人，郑烘原因政府对4月16日的渡轮灾难处理不力而辞职，这次灾难造成300多人死亡，死者大多是学生。
The post of prime minister is a largely ceremonial one in South Korea. But the botched appointments cast doubt on Ms. Park’s ability to choose a candidate who could pass the test of public opinion in a country deeply divided over her administration.
在韩国，总理的职位基本上是象征性的。但这两次失败的提名让人们怀疑朴槿惠的能力，在这个对其政府的意见严重分歧的国家里，她是否能挑选出一个可以通过公众舆论检验的人。
Mr. Moon’s trouble began when a national television network, KBS, broadcast footage from a 2011 lecture he had given at his Presbyterian church in Seoul.
文昌克的困境始于国家电视台KBS的一个报道，该台播放了他2011年在首尔的一个长老会教堂演讲的视频。
“We may protest, ‘Why did God make this nation a colony of Japan?’ But as I said earlier, there is God’s will in it,” Mr. Moon, an elder at his church, said from the pulpit, according to the video, which circulated widely online.
在视频中，作为自己教堂长老的文昌克在布道坛上说，“我们也许会抗议，‘为什么上帝让这个国家成为日本的殖民地？’但就像我以前说的，这里面有上帝的安排。”这段视频在网上广为流转。
Mr. Moon also said that the Korean elite had been hopelessly corrupt and inefficient before colonization began in 1910. “Laziness, lack of independence and a tendency to depend on others were in our national DNA,” he said in the speech. God’s message, he said, was “you needed hardship,” in the form of colonization.
文昌克还说，朝鲜半岛的精英阶层在1910年殖民开始之前曾经无可救药地腐败和无所作为。“懒惰、不独立以及依赖他人的倾向存在于我们民族的DNA中，”他在演讲中这样说，他说，上帝的旨意是“你们需要苦难”，以被殖民的方式。
Mr. Moon also said that “in retrospect, it was also God’s will” for Korea to be divided into a Communist North and a pro-American South after Japan’s rule ended with its defeat in World War II. Noting that there were many Communists among Korea’s elite at the time, Mr. Moon said, “Given the way we were then, had Korea been liberated as a whole, it would have been Communized.”
文昌克还说，“回过头来看，”日本在二次世界大战中被打败后，将朝鲜半岛分裂成共产主义的北方和亲美国的南方，“也是上帝的安排。”文昌克说，当时朝鲜半岛的精英阶层中有很多信奉共产主义的人，“鉴于当时的情况，如果朝鲜半岛被整个解放的话，它将会被共产主义化 。”
Critics interpreted the remarks as a prime-minister-to-be’s justifying his own country’s colonization. They argued that nationalist politicians in Japan, including Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, would use his remarks to strengthen the case that colonial rule was not as bad as many Koreans have made it out to be. Relations between Japan and South Korea have chilled in recent years, with historical and territorial issues at the root of many disputes.
批评者把这些说法理解为，这位准首相在为他自己的国家沦为殖民地提供正当理由。他们指出，包括首相安倍晋三在内的日本民族主义政客，可能会利用他的这番话来增强他们的观点，既殖民统治并不像很多韩国人所说的那么坏。韩国与日本最近几年关系冷淡，很多争议的根源都在历史和领土问题上。
Mr. Moon expressed regret over what he called a “misunderstanding” arising from “a little gap between what can be said inside a church and sentiments of ordinary people.” But he said that political opponents had distorted comments he had made to a private audience.
文昌克对自己的话引起“误解”表示后悔，他说误解源于“教堂里能说的话与普通民众情绪之间的微小差距”。但他还说，政敌扭曲了他在一个非公开场合说的话。
The uproar led to Mr. Moon’s being labeled “pro-Japanese,” a toxic political epithet in South Korea. Even some prominent members of Ms. Park’s party joined the opposition in demanding that Mr. Moon step down.
人们的愤怒导致文昌克被贴上了“亲日”的标签，这个标签在韩国极具政治毒性。就连朴槿惠党内的一些主要成员也加入了反对者的行列，要求文昌克退出提名。
Historical issues involving Japan’s rule over Korea have been problematic for Ms. Park herself. Her father, the former dictator Park Chung-hee, was once an officer in Japan’s Imperial Army; during Ms. Park’s presidential campaign in 2012, her most outspoken critics cited that family history to argue that she could not be trusted.
牵涉到日本对朝鲜半岛殖民统治的历史问题对朴槿惠本人来说也有麻烦。她的父亲、前独裁者朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)曾是日本帝国陆军(Imperial Army)的一名军官；在朴槿惠2012年的总统竞选期间，对她批评最严厉的人曾提到那段家史，以此作为她不值得信任的理由。