SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea conducted a rare test of a submarine-launched ballistic missile over the weekend, but it ended in failure, said a South Korean lawmaker who attended a closed-door parliamentary briefing by the National Intelligence Service on Monday.
韩国首尔—— 韩国的一位议员表示，根据国家情报院周一在国会进行的闭门通报，朝鲜于周末罕见地试射了一枚潜射弹道导弹，然而以失败告终。
Joo Ho-young, a governing party lawmaker and chairman of the National Assembly’s Intelligence Committee, cited officials from the intelligence service, the South’s main spy agency, as saying that North Korea had conducted the test on Saturday off Wonsan, a port city east of Pyongyang, with its leader, Kim Jong-un, watching.
执政党议员、国会情报委员长朱豪英(Joo Ho-young)引述国家情报院官员的说法，称朝鲜这次试射是在该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)到场观看下，于周六在位于平壤以东的港口城市元山举行的。国家情报院是韩国主要的情报资讯机构。
But there was no sign that the missile was successfully ejected from the submarine and took off, Mr. Joo told reporters after the intelligence officials briefed his committee. No rocket trajectory was detected, and what appeared to be debris from a missile was later seen floating on the surface of the sea, he said.
不过，朱豪英在国情院向他领导的委员会报告结束后告诉记者，没有迹象显示这枚导弹从潜艇成功发射并升空。他表示官方没有侦测到任何飞行轨迹，而看似来自导弹的碎片稍后浮现在海面上。
The intelligence service declined to comment on the closed-door parliamentary session.
国情院拒绝对这场不对外公开的通报会发表评论。
On Monday, Kim Min-seok, the main spokesman for the Defense Ministry of South Korea, declined to provide details, saying that information related to “the North’s launching of an S.L.B.M.,” or submarine-launched ballistic missile, remained classified.
韩国国防部主要发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)周一时拒绝提供细节消息。他表示“朝鲜发射了SLBM”——亦即潜射弹道导弹——的相关资讯仍属机密。
“What we can say is that North Korea is continuing the development and testing of an S.L.B.M.,” Mr. Kim said. “It is a violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions banning it from developing or testing ballistic missiles.”
“我们只能说，朝鲜仍在持续研发与测试SLBM，” 金珉奭表示。“这违反了联合国安全理事会禁止其研发或试射弹道导弹的决议。”
Fears in the South of North Korean missile threats have grown since May, when the North claimed that it had successfully test-fired such a weapon and released photographs of Mr. Kim observing a missile soaring out of the water.
韩国对朝鲜导弹威胁的担忧自今年5月起渐增，当时朝鲜声称他们成功试射了一枚此类武器，并公开了金正恩观看导弹窜出水面的照片。
Some missile experts have since questioned the claim, however, saying that the photographs appeared to have been modified. They said that the North was probably still many years away from developing a submarine-launched ballistic missile, which would present a hard-to-detect danger for its enemies in the region. But South Korean officials maintained that the North had successfully fired a submarine-launched missile, which flew nearly 500 feet before falling into the sea. They said they expected more such tests.
然而，一些导弹专家质疑朝鲜此番声明的真实性，认为那些照片看起来修改过。他们表示朝鲜要研发出潜射弹道导弹应该还得花上多年时间，而这件武器将意味着邻近敌国的隐患。不过，韩国官方仍坚持朝鲜已成功试射潜射弹道导弹一说，且它在落海前飞行了近500英尺远。他们表示，预期还会有更多这类测试。