SEOUL, South Korea — South Korean marines have dismantled a 43-year-old Christmas tower on the border with North Korea that the North had threatened to attack with artillery, officials here said on Wednesday.
韩国首尔——这里的官员周三表示，韩国海军陆战队已拆除了朝韩边境上一座有43年历史的圣诞树形塔状建筑。此前，朝鲜曾威胁要炮击该塔。
Built on a front-line hilltop northwest of Seoul in 1971, the 59-foot steel tower, tipped with a cross, used to be illuminated with cascades of light bulbs around Christmas during the Cold War years. Batteries of loudspeakers sent Christmas carols drifting across the snow-covered border into the North, where the totalitarian regime repressed religious freedom.
这座塔顶端竖有十字架，位于首尔西北部与朝鲜毗邻的一座山顶上，建于1971年。冷战时期的圣诞节前后，59英尺（约合18米）高的钢塔会被层层灯泡照亮。一排排喇叭传出的圣诞颂歌，飘过白雪覆盖的边界线，进入宗教自由遭到极权政权压迫的朝鲜。
It was part of the psychological warfare the two Koreas continued to wage along the 155-mile border even after their three-year war ended with a truce in 1953. The sides carved their border hills with large slogans exhorting opposing troops to defect to the capitalist South “for freedom” or to the “people’s paradise” of the communist North. They also used radio broadcasts and balloons carrying propaganda leaflets.
1953年，朝韩之间持续三年的战争以停火结束。即便如此，两国依然沿着155英里（约合250公里）的边境线持续发起心理战。圣诞塔便是这场心理战的一部分。双方在边境地区的山上雕刻出大型标语，劝告对方士兵“为了自由”逃往实行资本主义制度的韩国，或是跑到实行共产主义制度的“人民天堂”朝鲜。他们还会动用无线电广播和携有宣传单的气球。
The rival Koreas discontinued most of the campaign after they agreed to stop slandering each other when they held a summit meeting in 2000.
两国在2000年的一次峰会上同意停止诋毁彼此后，敌对双方停止了大部分宣传活动。
The South Korean marines stopped lighting the Christmas tower in 2004. In 2010, when the North was accused of torpedoing a South Korean warship, the military let Christian groups light the tower again. It was around that time that conservative activists in the South also began sending propaganda balloons into the North. The tower was lighted one more time in 2012, when the North fired a long-range rocket two weeks before Christmas.
2004年，韩国海军陆战队中止了点亮这座圣诞塔的行为。2010年，当朝鲜被指用鱼雷击沉了韩国的一艘军舰时，韩国军方让基督教团体再次点亮该塔。大约那时，韩国的保守派活动人士也开始向朝鲜放飞宣传气球。2012年，朝鲜在离圣诞还有两周时发射了一枚远程火箭，该塔又一次被点亮。
North Korea, which denies involvement in the sinking of the South Korean ship, has lashed out at the revival of the Christmas tower and leaflet balloons, calling them a breach of the 2000 summit agreement and threatening to fire on them.
朝鲜否认与韩国军舰的沉没有关，并猛烈抨击了圣诞塔恢复亮灯和用气球来发放传单的行为，称它们违反了2000年的峰会协议，还威胁要予以攻击。
On Oct. 10, the two armies exchanged machine-gun fire after the North tried to shoot down leaflet balloons that South Korean activists had released across the border. South Korean police officers and villagers near the border have since tried to stop the activists from launching balloons for fear of an armed clash, although the Seoul government officially says it cannot interfere in civic groups’ balloon campaigns.
10月10日，当朝鲜试图击落韩国活动人士放飞到朝鲜境内的传单气球后，两军曾互射机关枪。虽然韩国政府的官方说法是，它无权干涉民间组织的气球宣称活动，但边境附近的韩国警察和村民因为担心这样会引起武装冲突，所以从那时起便试图阻止活动人士放飞气球。