SEOUL, South Korea — A South Korean court on Thursday ordered a Japanese company to compensate dozens of Koreans who were forced to work in its factory during Japanese colonial rule of Korea, which ended with Japan’s defeat in World War II.
韩国首尔——韩国一家法院周四勒令一家日本公司对几十名韩国人给予赔偿。在二战结束前的日本殖民统治时期，这些人曾被迫在该公司的工厂里做工。
The Japanese company, the Nachi-Fujikoshi Corporation, must pay $75,800 to $94,800 to each of the 13 former workers who are still alive and to the families of 18 who have died, the Seoul Central District Court said on Thursday.
首尔中央地方法院(Seoul Central District Court)周四表示，名为不二越(Nachi-Fujikoshi Corporation)的这家日本企业必须向13名尚在世的前劳工，以及18名已过失前劳工的家人，各支付7.58万美元（约合46万元人民币）至9.48万美元不等的赔偿。
In court rulings last year, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and the Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal Corporation were ordered to pay similar amounts to compensate South Korean plaintiffs.
在去年的法庭裁决中，三菱重工(Mitsubishi Heavy Industries)和新日铁住金株式会社(Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal Corporation)也被勒令向韩国原告赔付类似的金额。
Mitsubishi Heavy and Nippon Steel have filed appeals, and Nachi-Fujikoshi said it would do the same.
三菱重工和新日铁住金均提起了上诉，不二越表示也将上诉。
Allegations of forced labor during the 35 years of Japanese colonial rule are just one of a number of issues that have recently intensified tensions between South Korea and Japan.
在长达35年的殖民统治期间强制劳役的指控，仅仅是最近导致韩日两国紧张关系激化的诸多问题中的一个。
Historians in South Korea estimate that at least 1.2 million Koreans were forced to work for Japan’s war efforts in Japan, China and elsewhere. Roughly 300 Japanese companies still in operation are believed to have used such workers, according to South Korean officials.
韩国的历史学家估计，至少有120万名朝鲜人在日本、中国和其他地方，被迫为日本的战争行动做工。韩国官员表示，依然在经营的大约300家日本公司，据信征用过这类劳工。
South Korean plaintiffs seeking compensation first sued in Japan. But courts there sided with the companies and the Japanese government, saying the 1965 treaty normalizing diplomatic ties between Japan and South Korea had closed the issue.
寻求赔偿的韩国原告先是在日本提起了诉讼。但那里的法院站在相关公司和日本政府的一边，称1965年的日韩邦交正常化条约，已经解决了这个问题。
The plaintiffs then took their cases to South Korean courts. At first, local judges in South Korea honored the rulings by the Japanese courts. But the Supreme Court overturned their rulings in May 2012 and sent the cases back to the lower courts for trial, saying the Japanese rulings went against the Constitution of South Korea and international legal norms.
于是，相关原告将案件诉至韩国法院。起初，韩国地方法官也支持了日本法院的裁决。但2012年5月，作为最高法院的韩国大法院(Supreme Court)推翻了它们的判决，并将案件发回下级法院审理，称日本的裁决违反了韩国宪法和国际法规范。
If the South Korean Supreme Court upholds the lower court rulings and the Japanese companies refuse to pay compensation, the plaintiffs could ask the courts to seize the companies’ assets in South Korea, a step that would almost certainly strain relations further.
如果韩国大法院支持下级法院的判决，而日本公司拒绝支付赔偿，原告就可以申请法院查封公司在韩国的资产，而这样做几乎肯定会让两国关系更加紧张。
Nachi-Fujikoshi was accused of using 1,000 Korean girls ages 12 to 18 as forced laborers at a factory in Toyama Prefecture, Japan.
不二越被控曾强迫1000名年龄在12岁到18岁之间的朝鲜女孩，在日本富山县的一家工厂劳动。
The victims worked 10 to 12 hours a day except Sundays, toiling “under strict surveillance and in deplorable working conditions,” the court said in its ruling on Thursday. “They were neither fed properly nor paid wages.”
法院周四在判决中称，除周日以外，这些受害者每天需要工作10至12小时，“在严格的监视和凄惨的工作条件下”辛苦劳作。“她们既吃不饱，也拿不到工资。”
“Deceiving young girls into volunteering” for the wartime effort, or forcibly recruiting them, amounted to “a crime against humanity directly linked to Japan’s illegal colonial occupation and its war of aggression,” the court ruled.
法院称，“欺骗年轻女孩志愿参加”战时劳动或强制征召她们，构成“一种反人类罪行，与日本的非法殖民占领和侵略战争存在直接联系”。