SEOUL, South Korea — Reacting to worries and conjecture spreading in South Korea of a possible pre-emptive American military strike on nuclear-armed North Korea, the government sought to reassure citizens on Tuesday that there would be no such attack without its consent.
韩国首尔——周二，针对国内蔓延的美国可能会先发制人，对拥有核武器装备的朝鲜发动军事袭击的担忧和推测，韩国政府周二向民众保证，未经其允许，不会出现这样的袭击。
Statements of reassurance from government officials came as a leading presidential candidate warned that no foreign countries, including the United States, should bring war to the Korean Peninsula.
随着一名领先的总统候选人警告，包括美国在内的外国不应将战火引向朝鲜半岛，政府官员发出多份保证声明。
Anxiety and rumormongering among South Koreans that the Trump administration would answer the North’s messages of nuclear belligerence with a military strike have intensified over the last week.
上周，有关特朗普政府会以军事袭击的方式来回应朝鲜核挑衅的传言，及其引发的焦虑在韩国民众中愈演愈烈。
The anxieties were fed by Mr. Trump’s willingness to use force, as seen in his missile attack on Syria; the redeployment of American warships near the Korean Peninsula; and Mr. Trump’s impatience with China over what he views as its reluctance to pressure North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un.
特朗普愿意动用武力——他下令对叙利亚发动导弹袭击证明了这一点；再度将美国战舰部署在朝鲜半岛附近；以及在他看来中国不愿向朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)施压而导致的不耐烦，都加剧了民众的焦虑。
Mr. Trump added to the worries on Tuesday with Twitter messages declaring that if the Chinese would not help, “we will solve the problem without them!”
特朗普周二在Twitter上发帖称，如果中国不帮忙，“我们没有他们也要解决问题”。这让民众的担忧进一步增加。
Although officials in South Korea have said the United States would never attack the North without first consulting the South Korean government, the confluence of events has revived fears of such a possibility.
尽管韩国官员称美国永远不会不先同韩国政府协商就袭击朝鲜，但相关事件综合在一起，再度引发了民众对这一可能性的担忧。
“The United States makes it clear that it will not take a new policy or measure without consultations with us,” Cho June-hyuck, a spokesman for the South Korean Foreign Ministry, said on Tuesday when asked by reporters about the rumors.
“美国明确表示不会不同我们商量就采取新的政策或措施，”韩国外交部发言人赵俊赫(Cho June-hyuck)周二被记者问及相关传言时说。
Moon Sang-gyun, a Defense Ministry spokesman, also warned that South Koreans should not be “deluded” by unfounded rumors spreading online.
韩国国防部发言人文相均(Moon Sang-gyun)也警告称，韩国民众不应被网上毫无根据的传言“蒙蔽”。
Moon Jae-in, a leader of the main opposition Democratic Party, in a Facebook post that was widely cited in South Korean news media on Tuesday, issued his own warning against the possibility of an American pre-emptive strike carried out unilaterally.
主要反对党民主党(Democratic Party)的领袖文在寅(Moon Jae-in)在Facebook发帖，告诫美国不要采取单边行动，发动一场先发制人的袭击。周二，该贴被韩国新闻媒体广泛引用。
“The safety of South Korea is as important as that of the United States,” he said. “There should never be a pre-emptive strike without South Korean consent.”
“韩国的安全与美国的安全同等重要，”他说。“永远不应出现一场未经韩国允许的先发制人袭击。”
Mr. Moon is one of the two leading contenders, along with another opposition leader, Ahn Cheol-soo, for the May 9 presidential election to choose the successor to former President Park Geun-hye. Ms. Park, who was impeached by Parliament in December, was formally ousted in a Constitutional Court ruling in March. Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn is serving as the acting president.
5月9日，韩国将举行大选，选出前总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的继任者。文在寅是两名领先的竞争者之一，另一位是反对派领袖安哲秀(Ahn Cheol-soo)。今年3月，韩国宪法法院作出裁决，正式罢免去年12月被弹劾的朴槿惠。目前，韩国由总理黄教安(Hwang Kyo-ahn)担任代总统。
“Neighboring countries are taking advantage of the absence of a president in South Korea to try to exclude us and handle issues on the Korean Peninsula according to their own understanding,” Mr. Moon said, without blaming the Trump administration by name.
“周边国家正在利用韩国没有总统这一点，试图把我们排除在外，按照自己的理解处理朝鲜半岛问题，”文在寅说道，没有点名指责特朗普政府。
Although South Koreans generally consider the United States their most important ally in deterring North Korea, they remain deeply wary of any American moves that they fear will raise tensions and even rekindle war. The Korean Peninsula remains technically at war because the 1950-53 Korean War was halted by an armistice, not a peace treaty.
尽管韩国民众总体上认为美国是威慑朝鲜一事上最重要的盟友，但他们依然对美国做出任何可能会导致紧张关系升级甚至重新点燃战火的举动保持高度警惕。朝鲜半岛从严格意义上来说依然处于战争状态，因为1950~1953年的朝鲜战争停止是因为签署了一纸停火协议，而非和平条约。
The United States and South Korea would together win any war against North Korea, but many fear catastrophic devastation to South Korea, especially Seoul. The capital city — home to 10 million people and surrounded by satellite cities with another 10 million residents — lies within the range of North Korean artillery, rockets and short-range missiles amassed along the border.
美韩联手，无论怎样都会打赢朝鲜，但很多人担心韩国会遭到灾难性的破坏，特别是首尔。作为韩国的首都，首尔位于朝鲜集结在边境上的大炮、火箭弹和短程导弹的射程范围内，这里生活着1000万人，周围的卫星城则生活着另外1000万人。
In 1994, not long after the nuclear crisis first flared with North Korea, President Bill Clinton considered launching an attack on the North’s main nuclear complex in Yongbyon north of Pyongyang, the capital, according to the South Korean president at the time, Kim Young-sam. Panic swept through South Korea, with people stocking up on food. Mr. Kim later said he had personally protested to Mr. Clinton, persuading Washington to drop the plan to strike Yongbyon.
据时任韩国总统金泳三(Kim Young-sam)称，1994年朝鲜核危机首次爆发后不久，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统曾考虑对朝鲜位于平壤北部宁边的主要核设施发动袭击。恐慌席卷韩国，民众纷纷囤积食品。金泳三后来说，他亲自向克林顿抗议，说服华盛顿放弃袭击宁边的计划。
After conducting five nuclear tests since 2006, North Korea is now widely believed to have several to as many as a dozen nuclear weapons, making a pre-emptive strike far riskier than it was in 1994. The North is also one of the world’s largest owners of chemical and biological weapons and apparently has no qualms in using them, as in the Feb. 13 assassination in Malaysia of Kim Jong-nam, the estranged half brother of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Malaysia has said Kim Jong-nam was killed by the nerve agent VX.
自2006年以来，朝鲜已进行了五次核试验。现在，外界普遍认为朝鲜拥有几件，甚至多达十几件的核武器。这让发动先发制人打击的风险远比1994年高。朝鲜也是全世界拥有生化武器最多的国家之一，并且从朝鲜领导人金正恩( Kim Jong-un)关系疏远的同父异母兄长金正男( Kim Jong-nam)2月13日在马来西亚被暗杀一事来看，朝鲜似乎并不为使用生化武器感到不安。马来西亚称金正男死于神经毒剂VX。
Since Kim Jong-un took power five years ago, North Korea has conducted three nuclear tests and nearly 50 ballistic missile tests. And in his New Year’s Day speech, Mr. Kim said his country was in the “final stage” of preparing for its first test of an intercontinental ballistic missile.
自金正恩五年前掌权以来，朝鲜已进行了三次核试验和近50次弹道导弹试验。在元旦致辞中，金正恩称他领导的国家正处在筹备首次洲际弹道导弹试验的“最后阶段”。
Mr. Trump retorted at the time: “It won’t happen!”
特朗普当时反驳说：“不会发生的！”
Defense analysts said there were too many constraints for the United States to launch a pre-emptive strike against North Korea without expecting a major retaliation. North Korea keeps most of its crucial military assets in tunnels, and it remains unclear whether the United States and South Korean military planners have located them all. There are also 200,000 American civilians, as well as 28,500 United States troops, living in South Korea, and their neighborhoods would probably be among the first targets of any North Korean retaliation.
防务分析人士称，美国对朝发动先发制人打击又不会遭致重大报复的限制因素太多。朝鲜至关重要的军事资产大部分都存放在隧道里，尚不清楚美国和韩国军方的规划机构是否已经确定了它们所有的位置。韩国还生活着20万美国平民和2.85万名美军，他们所在社区可能是朝鲜进行报复时的首批目标。
On Tuesday, North Korea’s main state-run newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, said that if the United States tried a pre-emptive strike, it would be “as foolish as putting its own neck on the chopping block.”
周二，朝鲜主要官方报纸《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)称，如果美国试图发动先发制人的打击，它就是“蠢到把自己的脖子伸到了砧板上”。
In another sign that North Korea has no intention of forsaking nuclear arms, top North Korean officials in Pyongyang gathered on Tuesday, the fifth anniversary of Mr. Kim’s election as leader of the ruling Workers’ Party, and vowed to uphold his policy of strengthening the North’s nuclear arsenal, the state news media reported. Also on Tuesday, Ri Su-yong, an 82-year-old Politburo member, former foreign minister, and adviser and childhood mentor to Mr. Kim, was given another powerful position in Parliament. Last year, Mr. Ri told Chinese officials that North Korea’s nuclear weapons expansion was “permanent.”
官方新闻媒体还报道，周二，平壤的朝鲜高层官员聚集在一起，庆祝金正恩当选执政党劳动党(Workers’ Party)领袖五周年，并发誓拥护他增强朝鲜核武库的政策。这个迹象再次表明，朝鲜无意放弃核武器。同样是在周二，82岁的政治局委员、前外相、金正恩的顾问兼童年时的导师李洙墉(Ri Su-yong)再次在朝鲜最高人民会议获得一个有影响力的职位。去年，李洙墉对中国官员表示，朝鲜的核武器扩张是“永久性的”。
With less than one month left before the presidential election in the South, how to deal with North Korea has become a dominant campaign issue.
在离韩国大选只剩不到一个月之际，如何对待朝鲜已经成了一个重要的竞选议题。
Mr. Ahn, the presidential candidate of the centrist People’s Party, has recently surged in popularity to rival Mr. Moon in a neck-and-neck race. Many conservative voters who were disappointed by Ms. Park’s conservative camp are supporting Mr. Ahn, whom they consider tougher on North Korea than Mr. Moon, political analysts said.
中间派人民党(People’s Party)总统候选人安哲秀最近支持率飙升，与文在寅形成不分上下的选情。政治分析人士称，很多对朴槿惠的保守派阵营感到失望的保守派选民支持安哲秀，认为他在朝鲜问题上比文在寅更强硬。
Mr. Ahn said that if elected, he would honor the contentious decision by Ms. Park’s government to allow the United States to deploy an advanced antimissile defense system in the South.
安哲秀表示，如果当选，他将履行朴槿惠政府允许美国在韩国部署一个先进的反导弹防御系统的决定。该决定颇具争议。
China has vehemently opposed the deployment, calling it a threat to its own security, and South Korean shops, movies and TV dramas have been boycotted by many Chinese in recent months.
中国强烈反对部署该系统，称其威胁到了它的安全。最近几个月，韩国的店铺、电影和电视剧遭到很多中国人的抵制。
Mr. Moon, who has said South Korea should learn to “say no to the Americans,” vowed to review the deployment if elected.
称韩国应学着“对美国说不”的文在寅发誓，如果当选，他将重新检讨该系统的部署。
On Tuesday, Mr. Moon said if North Korea froze its nuclear weapons program and returned to negotiations, the deployment of the so-called Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, could be suspended. But if North Korea conducts its sixth nuclear test and advances its nuclear weapons program, he warned, the deployment will become “inevitable.”
文在寅周二表示，如果朝鲜冻结核武器计划并回到谈判桌旁，可以暂停部署所谓的末端高空防御系统（Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system，简称“萨德”）。但他警告，如果朝鲜进行第六次核试验并推进核武器计划，部署将变得“不可避免”。