SEOUL, South Korea — Military investigators raided South Korea’s Cyber Warfare Command on Tuesday after four of its officials were found to have posted political messages online last year, in what opposition lawmakers have called a smear campaign against President Park Geun-hye’s opponents before her election in December.
韩国首尔——周二，军方调查人员对韩国的网络战指挥中心(Cyber Warfare Command)进行了突然搜查，因为该指挥中心的四名官员被发现去年曾在网上发布政治讯息。韩国反对党议员称，这些讯息出现在朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)总统于12月当选之前，是针对她的对手发起的抹黑行动。
Ms. Park defeated her main opposition rival, Moon Jae-in, by roughly a million votes in the election and took office in February. But in a snowballing scandal, prosecutors have since said that during the presidential campaign, agents of the National Intelligence Service posted thousands of Internet messages supporting Ms. Park and her governing Saenuri Party or berating government critics, including opposition presidential candidates, as shills for North Korea.
朴槿惠在选举中以大约100万票的优势击败了主要的反对派对手文在寅(Moon Jae-in)，并于2月就职。但是，在这个迅速膨胀的丑闻中，检方表示，国家情报院（National Intelligence Service，简称NIS）特工在总统竞选期间发布了数千条支持朴槿惠和她所在的执政党新国家党(Saenuri Party)的网络讯息，并将包括反对派总统候选人在内的政府批评人士斥为朝鲜间谍。
Last week, opposition lawmakers alleged in the National Assembly that the military’s secretive Cyber Warfare Command had carried out a similar online campaign, separately or in coordination with the spy agency, to help sway public opinion in favor of Ms. Park before the Dec. 19 election.
上周，反对党议员在国民大会中称，行事诡秘的军方网络战指挥中心开展了一场与此相类的网络战争，意图在12月19日大选之前煽动公众舆论对朴槿惠的支持，此举既可能是单独开展的行动，也可能是与前述情报机构的协作。
On Tuesday, the Defense Ministry confirmed that four cyber-warfare officials had posted political messages. But it quoted them as saying that they had acted on their own.
周二，国防部(Defense Ministry)确认，确曾有四名网络战官员发布政治讯息。但国防部引用他们的话说，他们的行动都出于个人意愿。
Still, “the ministry will investigate whether there was command-level involvement,” said the ministry’s spokesman, Kim Min-seok, explaining the raid on the command headquarters.
然而，国防部发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)在解释对指挥中心的搜查时说，“国防部将进行调查，以确定这种行为是否牵涉高层。”
The cyber-warfare command, created in 2010 to guard South Korea against hacking threats from North Korea, is only the latest state agency to have been touched by the growing scandal.
网络战指挥中心创建于2010年，目的是保护韩国不受朝鲜的黑客攻击。这件越来越严重的丑闻波及一系列国家机构，它只是最新的一个而已。
The political opposition first raised the charge of illegal electioneering during the presidential campaign last year. Three days before the voting, however, the police announced that they had investigated and found no evidence to support the accusations.
去年总统竞选期间，韩国政治反对派首次提出了关于非法竞选活动的指控。但是，警方在投票开始三天前宣布，经过调查，他们没有发现能支持这些指控的证据。
But in June, prosecutors indicted Won Sei-hoon, the intelligence agency’s former director, for allegedly supervising an online smear campaign against Ms. Park’s political opponents. They also indicted Kim Yang-pan, the former chief of the Seoul Metropolitan Police, saying he had whitewashed an investigation into the matter by junior officers.
但是，今年6月，检方对情报院前院长元世勋(Won Sei-hoon)提出了指控，罪名是涉嫌指挥针对朴槿惠政治对手的网络抹黑行动。他们还指控了首尔都市警察局(Seoul Metropolitan Police)前局长金阳阪（Kim Yang-pan，音译），称他掩盖了下级对此事的调查。
Mr. Won and the spy agency insisted that the online messages were posted as part of normal psychological warfare operations against North Korea and did not amount to meddling in an election. Ms. Park has denied using the spy agency for her campaign.
元世勋和国家情报院坚称，这些网络讯息是针对朝鲜的常规心理战的部分内容，并不是为了干预选举。朴槿惠否认曾在选举中利用该情报机构。
Since Ms. Park’s inauguration, South Korean politics have been paralyzed by scandals, including the one surrounding the spy agency. Rival political rallies have rocked downtown Seoul in recent weeks. Student activists demanded reform within the intelligence agency to prevent it from meddling in domestic politics. But older, conservative Koreans have encouraged the agency, known by its acronym N.I.S., to “wipe out North Korea followers” from the National Assembly and cyberspace.
自朴槿惠就任韩国总统以来，韩国政坛因为丑闻陷入瘫痪，比如有关该情报机构的丑闻。最近几周，政治对手在首尔市区举行了声势浩大的集会。学生活动人士要求该情报机构进行改革，使其不再干预国内政治。年长的保守韩国人却鼓励NIS“将朝鲜的追随者赶出”国民大会及网络空间。
Last month, the spy agency arrested a far-left nationalist opposition lawmaker on charges of plotting an armed rebellion against the South Korean government in the event of war with North Korea. “To many in Korea and abroad, it appears that the N.I.S. is using a crude distraction in order to avoid scrutiny of its own alleged illegal activities, and to justify its existing powers,” more than 200 scholars on Korea living aboard said in a joint statement released on Tuesday.
上个月，该情报机构逮捕了一名极左民族主义反对派议员，罪名是谋划在朝韩战争爆发之时举行武装叛乱，反对韩国政府。周二，200多名居住在海外的韩国研究学者发表联合声明称，“对于韩国国内外的很多人来说，NIS似乎是在通过一种拙劣的转移视线举措，试图避开对他们自己违法嫌疑的审查，并证明现有权力的合理性。”
But the scandal has kept growing. Last month, a Seoul court ordered the prosecution of two more senior intelligence officials for involvement in the alleged online campaign.
然而，丑闻愈演愈烈。上个月，首尔的一家法院起诉了另外两名高级情报官员，称他们涉嫌参与前述网络行动。
On Monday, during a National Assembly hearing, Yoon Seok-ryeol, a senior prosecutor who had led the investigation of the scandal until recently, said his team had been under “external pressure.”
周一，高级检察官尹塞礼（Yoon Seok-ryeol，音译）在国会听证会上表示，他的团队面临“外部压力”。直到前不久，尹塞礼还在负责调查丑闻事件。
Mr. Yoon was removed from the investigation last week after his team detained three intelligence agents and searched their homes. He said his team had collected more evidence of the spy agency’s online campaign: 55,700 messages, tweeted or retweeted by intelligence agents, that praised Ms. Park or disparaged her opposition rivals ahead of the December election. One of them called Mr. Moon, the main opposition candidate, a “servant” of North Korea and Ahn Cheol-soo, an independent who supported Mr. Moon, “a woman in men’s clothes.”
尹塞礼的团队扣押了三名情报人员，并且搜查了他们的住所，此后，尹塞礼于上周被调离。他表示，他的团队已经收集了关于该情报机构网络行动的更多证据：12月总统大选之前，情报人员发布或转发了55700条讯息，内容或是赞扬朴槿惠，或是诽谤反对派对手。其中一条讯息称主要反对党候选人文在寅是朝鲜的“仆人”，称支持文在寅的无党派人士安哲秀(Ahn Cheol-soo)是“身穿男装的女人”。
Cho Yong-gon, head of the Seoul District Prosecutor’s Office, who supervised Mr. Yoon, denied putting political pressure on Mr. Yoon’s team. He said Mr. Yoon was removed from the investigation because he had not discussed the spy agents’ detentions in advance with his superiors, as regulations require.
尹塞礼的上级、首尔地方检察厅(Seoul District Prosecutor’s Office)检察长赵永乾（Cho Yong-gon，音译）否认曾向尹塞礼的团队施加政治压力。他表示，尹塞礼被调离是因为他擅自扣押情报人员，事前没有与上级进行讨论，这不符合规定。