SEOUL, South Korea — The government of President Park Geun-hye asked the Constitutional Court of South Korea Tuesday to disband a small leftist party accused of supporting North Korea at the cost of the South’s national security.
韩国首尔——韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)领导的政府周二要求韩国宪法法院(Constitutional Court of South Korea)解散一个小型左翼政党，该党被指以韩国国家安全为代价支持朝鲜。
Since its founding in late 2011, the United Progressive Party has been the lightning rod for criticism from Ms. Park’s conservative Saenuri Party. Several of its key members, including the lawmaker Lee Seok-ki, were arrested in September on charges of plotting an armed rebellion against the South Korean government in the event of war on the divided Korean Peninsula.
自从2011年年末创立以来，统合进步党(United Progressive Party)一直是朴槿惠领导的保守派新国家党(Saenuri Party)指责的目标。包括议员李石基(Lee Seok-ki)在内的几名成员已经于9月被逮捕，罪名是策划在朝鲜半岛爆发战争时武装反叛韩国政府。
The government’s decision was adopted at a cabinet meeting on Tuesday and quickly endorsed by Ms. Park, who was on a visit to Europe. It is the first lawsuit of its kind. No political party in South Korea has been shut down by the government or a court decision since Syngman Rhee, South Korea’s dictatorial founding president, forced the closure of a leftist party in 1958.
韩国政府是在周二的一次内阁会议上采纳上述决定的，并很快得到了正在欧洲访问的朴槿惠的同意。这是一次史无前例的诉讼。自从韩国的独裁开国总统李承晚(Syngman Rhee)1958年强制取缔了一个左翼政党以来，没有任何一个韩国政党因为政府或法庭裁决而解散。
“The platform of the United Progressive Party pursues a North Korean-style socialism,” Justice Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn said at a news conference. “We determined that its activities, such as a treason plot by its core elements, followed North Korea’s strategy to revolutionize the South.”
司法部长黄教安(Hwang Kyo-ahn)在一个新闻发布会上说，统合进步党的纲领奉行的是朝鲜式的社会主义。“我们认定，该党的活动，比如其核心成员的叛国阴谋，遵循的是朝鲜的战略，旨在对韩国发动革命。”
By law, the Constitutional Court can disband a political party if six or more of its nine justices agree that the party “violated the basic democratic order.” It remained unclear whether the six lawmakers affiliated with the United Progressive Party will lose parliamentary membership if their party is disbanded.
根据韩国法律，如果宪法法院的九名法官中有六名或更多法官认为该政党“妨碍了基本的民主秩序”，宪法法院就可以解散它。”目前仍不清楚统合进步党的六名议员是否会因此失去议员身份。
Lee Jung-hee, head of the party, the country’s third-largest, accused Ms. Park of returning to the dictatorship of her late father, President Park Chung-hee. During Mr. Park’s iron-fisted rule from 1961 to 1979, dissidents were tortured and sometimes executed on charges of plotting against South Korea on the North’s behalf, but the charges were often thrown out in retrials in a democratized South Korea decades later.
这个韩国第三大党的党魁李正姬(Lee Jung-hee)指责朴槿惠沿袭了她已故父亲朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)的独裁作风。在1961到1979年朴正熙的铁腕统治期间，异见人士饱受折磨，有些人因为亲朝反韩的罪名被处决，但几十年后，实现了民主的韩国对多数的指控进行了复审并平反。
“This is a rude anti-democratic violation of the Constitution, which guarantees the freedom of political activities,” Ms. Lee said. “This is a blatant and shameless political revenge.”
李正姬说，“这是对宪法的一次野蛮的反民主践踏，宪法保护政治活动的自由。这是一次公然的、厚颜无耻的政治报复。”
Ever since Ms. Park took office in February, South Korean politics have been rocked by a series of ideologically driven political scandals.
自从朴槿惠今年2月就职以来，韩国经历了一系列与意识形态有关的政治丑闻。
A former head of the National Intelligence Service is now on trial on charges he ran a team of state intelligence agents that carried out an online smear campaign against Ms. Park’s rivals ahead of the presidential election last December, calling them servants of North Korea. The scandal pushed Ms. Park and her conservative ruling party into a corner.
韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)的一名前负责人现在正在受审，他被指控操纵了一个国家情报特工团队，于去年12月总统大选之前在网上发起了抹黑朴槿惠竞选对手的行动，称他们是为朝鲜服务的。这桩丑闻让朴槿惠和她的保守派执政党陷入了麻烦。
Opposition lawmakers accused Ms. Park and her party of trying to divert attention from her election scandal by moving against the minor United Progressive Party, first with the arrest of its members on highly unusual charges of treason and now with a lawsuit to disband their party.
反对派议员指责朴槿惠和她的政党试图通过对少数党统合进步党采取行动，转移外界对其竞选丑闻的注意力，先是很罕见地以叛国指控逮捕了其成员，现在又提出解散该政党。
The recent scandals showed that South Korean politics remains deeply divided and volatile over North Korea six decades after the Korean War of 1950-53 ended without a peace treaty. They also raised questions about how freely people can talk about North Korea in the South, where the government blocks access to North Korean websites and people are still arrested for resending Twitter posts of North Korean propaganda materials.
最近的一系列丑闻显示，在朝鲜战争结束60年之后，韩国政治仍然呈深度分裂态势，对朝鲜问题的态度反复无常。1950年到1953年的朝鲜战争最终没有达成和平协议。这些丑闻还引发了在韩国能否自由谈论朝鲜的疑问。韩国政府屏蔽了朝鲜网站，至今仍有人因为转发朝鲜宣传内容的帖子被逮捕。
The United Progressive Party, with six seats, represents a minor force in the 299-member National Assembly. The main opposition party regarded it as too radical and kept it at a distance.
统合进步党在拥有299名成员的韩国国会(National Assembly)势单力薄，仅占有六个席位。主要的反对党认为统合进步党过于极端，与其保持着距离。
But the political firestorm over its fate reflects a larger struggle between liberals and conservatives in South Korea. The liberals stress the “nation” and reconciliation with North Korea, while the conservatives place anti-Communism at the center of their identity. The strife between the two camps intensified with the election of Ms. Park, whose father remains a godlike father figure among conservatives.
但是，统合进步党的命运在政治上引发的轩然大波反映出韩国自由派和保守派之间存在着一场更大的斗争。自由派强调“民族”以及与朝鲜的和解，而保守派则把反对共产主义作为其身份认同的核心。两个阵营的争斗因为朴槿惠的当选而加剧，朴槿惠的父亲对于保守派仍然是一个神一样的权威人物。
Some of the United Progressive Party members feared that if there were another war on the peninsula, conservatives would round up leftists for mass executions, “as Jews were once rounded up,” according to the transcript of a secret meeting of party members in May that was submitted to the court for the trial of party members on treason charges. Avoiding such a fate was cited as one of the reasons of plotting an armed rebellion.
今年5月党内成员召开的一个秘密会议的文字记录显示，一些统合进步党的成员担心，如果在朝鲜半岛上再次爆发战争，保守派人士将会围捕并大规模处决左翼人士，“就像犹太人曾经遭到的大屠杀一样”。这份文字记录被递交给法庭，用于审理被控叛国罪的统合进步党成员。法庭称其策划武装叛乱的原因之一就是想避免这样的命运。
The far left party’s platform calls for “rectifying our nation’s shameful history tainted by imperialist invasions, the national divide, military dictatorship, the tyranny and plunder of transnational monopoly capital and chaebol,” the latter referring to South Korea’s giant family-controlled business conglomerates which began expanding its influence under Ms. Park’s father. The party wants to end the American military presence, dismantle South Korea’s “subordinate alliance with the United States” and unify the North and the South.
这个极左政党的党纲呼吁“纠正我们国家被帝国主义侵略、民族分裂、军事独裁、暴政、侵占跨国垄断资本和财阀抹黑的耻辱历史，”后者指的是韩国那些由家族控制的巨型企业集团，它们的影响力就是在朴槿惠的父亲执政期间开始扩大的。该党想要结束美国在韩国的军事存在，解除与美国的这种以韩国为从属的同盟关系，并统一朝鲜半岛。
The conservative ruling party has long accused members of the United Progressive Party of subscribing to North Korea’s ideology of juche, or self-reliance, and has called for its disbandment.
保守派执政党长期以来一直指责统合进步党的成员支持朝鲜的“主体思想”(juche)，并要求将其解散。