SEOUL, South Korea — Fifty-two crew members remained missing in the western Bering Sea after their South Korean trawler sank in the frigid water on Monday, government and company officials said.
韩国首尔——韩国政府官员及公司高管表示，一艘拖网渔船于周一在白令海西部的冰冷海水中沉没，仍有52名船员失踪。
Rescuers had managed to pull seven survivors and one dead crew member from the water after the 1,753-ton trawler Oryong 501 sank off the coast of the Chukotka region in northeast Russia, the officials said. Other fishing boats rushed to the scene, but strong winds and rough seas hampered the rescue operation, they said.
官员们称，1753吨的“501五龙号”拖网渔船(Oryong 501)在俄罗斯东北部楚科奇自治区附近海域沉没，救援人员随后从海中救出了8人，其中有7人幸存，一名船员死去。他们表示，其他一些渔船火速赶往现场，但强风大浪阻碍了救援行动。
The South Korean Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries said 60 people had been on board the 36-year-old ship: 35 Indonesians, 13 Filipinos, 11 South Koreans and one Russian inspector.
韩国海洋水产部(Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries)表示，这艘已有36年历史的渔船上共载有60人：35名印尼籍船员、13名菲律宾籍船员，11名韩国籍船员，以及1名俄罗斯籍监督人员。
The crew member found dead was a South Korean, a ministry official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the government had not yet made a formal announcement. The Russian, one Filipino and five Indonesians were rescued, said Sajo Industries, the South Korean company that operated the ship.
海洋水产部一名官员表示，已经死亡的船员是韩国人。由于政府尚未发表正式声明，这名官员要求不具名。这艘渔船的运营商——韩国思潮产业(Sajo Industries)——表示，获救的是1名俄罗斯人、1名菲律宾人及5名印尼人。
The ship was believed to have run into trouble when a wave hit as the crew was hauling in its catch, flooding the boat’s storage chambers with seawater, said Lim Chae-ok, an executive at Sajo Industries.
思潮产业的高管林宰抑（Lim Chae-ok，音）称，这艘船据信是在船员收网的时候遇到麻烦的。当时，一个浪袭来，海水迅速灌入了储存货物的舱室。
Those who were rescued were in a life raft, he said.
他还表示，获救者当时在一艘救生筏上。
Others were believed to have jumped into the sea with life jackets on, Mr. Lim said. The water was 14 degrees Fahrenheit, he added.
林宰抑称，据信，其他人穿着救生衣跳进了海里，而海水的温度为零下10摄氏度。
The ship left for the Bering Sea from a port in Busan, South Korea, in July. It was one of six South Korean trawlers allowed to catch a total of 40,000 tons of pollock this year under a fisheries deal with Russia.
今年7月，这艘船离开韩国釜山的一座港口，前往白令海。根据韩国与俄罗斯签订的捕鱼协议，今年共有六艘韩国拖网渔船可以在此地捕捞共计4万吨的鳕鱼，而这艘船正是其中之一。