In a verdict expected to intensify tensions with Japan, a South Korean court on Tuesday ordered Mitsubishi Heavy Industries to compensate five South Koreans who were forced to work in the company’s factories during the period of Japanese colonial rule of Korea, which ended with World War II.
本周二，一家韩国法院裁决三菱重工(Mitsubishi Heavy Industries)对五名韩国人进行赔偿，而这很可能会激化韩国与日本的紧张关系。在二战结束前的日本殖民统治期间，这五名韩国人被迫在三菱重工的工厂里做工。
The high court in Busan, a port city in southeastern South Korea, ordered the company to pay $71,800 to each of the five Koreans.
韩国东南部港口城市釜山的高等法院判决三菱重工赔偿这五名韩国人每人7.18万美元。
It was the second such ruling against a Japanese company this month. On July 10, the Seoul High Court ordered the Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal Corporation to pay $89,800 to each of four South Korean plaintiffs to compensate them for forced labor. Nippon Steel and Mitsubishi each said they planned to appeal.
这是韩国法院本月第二次对日本公司作出这样的裁决。7月10日，首尔高等法院判决新日铁住金公司(Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal Corporation)因强制劳役补偿四名韩国原告每人8.98万美元。新日铁和三菱都表示将提起上诉。
The Busan court said in its ruling that Mitsubishi forced the South Korean plaintiffs to “toil in poor conditions in Hiroshima and yet failed to pay wages,” and “did not provide proper shelters or food after the dropping of an atomic bomb” there in 1945. All five plaintiffs are now deceased; their families represented them in court.
釜山法院在裁决中表示，三菱强迫韩国原告“在广岛工厂恶劣的环境下做苦工，但却没有支付工资”，而且在1945年广岛遭受原子弹袭击后，也“没有提供适当的庇护设施和食品”。这五名原告现在都已过世；代表出庭的是他们的家人。
The two rulings were the first in favor of South Koreans in a 16-year legal battle waged in Japan and South Korea, and they could prompt similar lawsuits from other victims or their families. At least 1.2 million Koreans were forced to work for Japan’s war efforts in Japan, China and elsewhere, historians here said. Some 300 Japanese companies still in operation are believed to have used forced labor during the colonial period from 1910 to 1945, according to officials in the South Korean capital, Seoul.
在日本和韩国进行的这场历时16年的法律战中，此前从未出现过有利于韩国人的判决，而这两项裁决可能会促使其他受害者或其家属提出类似诉讼。这里的历史学家们说，至少有120万韩国人在战争期间被迫在日本、中国和其他国家为日本做工。韩国首都首尔的官员说，曾在1910年到1945年殖民时期使用过奴工的日本企业中，目前大约有300家仍然存在。
South Korean plaintiffs first sued in Japan in 1997, but Japan’s top court dismissed the cases in 2005, saying the 1965 treaty normalizing diplomatic ties between Japan and South Korea closed the issue. The companies took the same position in the South Korean court cases.
1997年，韩国原告最先在日本提起诉讼，但在2005年，日本的最高法院驳回了他们的起诉，称1965年的日韩邦交正常化条约已经解决了这个问题。对于韩国法院受理的这些案件，日本公司也采用了同样的说法。
“While we have not confirmed the details of the ruling, we understand that all such claims between the two countries, including compensation for interned laborers, have been completely and conclusively settled under official state agreements,” a spokesman for Mitsubishi Heavy Industries said in a statement reacting to the Busan court’s ruling. “A ruling that goes against these agreements has no legitimacy and is truly regrettable.”
“虽然我们还没有确认这项裁决的细节，但我们认为，两国之间的所有索赔，包括针对强制劳役的索赔，已经依据两国的官方协议，毋庸置疑地获得了彻底解决，”三菱重工的发言人在回应釜山法院的裁决时表示，“违背这些协议的裁决不具备合法性，也非常令人遗憾。”
Local judges in South Korea honored the rulings by the Japanese courts in the companies’ favor. But the Supreme Court overturned their rulings in a landmark decision in May 2012 and sent the cases back to the lower courts for trial, saying the Japanese rulings went against the Constitution of South Korea and international legal norms.
韩国本地法官曾采纳日本法院作出的有利于日本公司的裁决。但在2012年5月，韩国最高法院做出了一项具有里程碑意义的裁决，称日本法院的裁决违反了韩国宪法和国际法律规范，因此推翻这些裁决，将案件发送回下级法院进行审判。
“We have two different rulings on the same cases in two different countries,” said Chang Wan-ick, a lawyer and leading campaigner for South Korean victims. “The civilized societies around the world will know which ruling is right: mobilizing civilians for forced labor for a war of aggression is wrong.”
“在两个不同的国家，同样的案子获得了两个不同的判决。” 張完翼（Chang Wan-ick，音译）说。他是一名律师，也是著名的韩国受害者权益活动家。“世界各地的文明社会都知道哪个裁决是正确的：把平民组织起来，强迫他们为侵略战争做工，这是错误的。”
If the rulings against Nippon Steel and Mitsubishi are upheld by the Supreme Court in South Korea and the Japanese companies refuse to pay compensation, the plaintiffs could try to have the court seize assets of the companies in South Korea, a step that would certainly escalate into a diplomatic spat.
如果对新日铁和三菱的裁决受到韩国最高法院的支持，而日本公司又拒绝支付赔偿金，原告就可以向法院申请查封这些公司在韩国的资产。一旦发生这种情况，此事必然会升级为外交事件。
On Tuesday, the South Korean bar association urged the Japanese companies and the governments of Japan and South Korea to avoid such a confrontation by establishing a foundation to compensate the victims and promote “historical reconciliation.”
本周二，韩国律师协会敦促日本公司以及日本和韩国的政府能设立一个基金会，对受害者进行赔偿，促进“历史问题的和解”，以避免这样的冲突。
The Foreign Ministry of South Korea said it was closely monitoring the court cases.
韩国外交部表示，正在密切关注这些诉讼案件。