SEOUL, South Korea —The man who attacked the American ambassador to South Korea on Thursday morning is a fringe political activist with a history of violence, and he acted alone when he rushed the diplomat and slashed his face with a knife, the South Korean police said.
韩国首尔——韩国警方称，周四上午袭击美国大使的男子，是一名有暴力前科的边缘政治激进分子，冲向大使并用刀划伤其面部的行动，是他一个人策划实施的。
The man, Kim Ki-jong, who the police said used a 10-inch knife to attack Ambassador Mark W. Lippert at a breakfast meeting, had received a suspended two-year prison term for an attack on the Japanese ambassador to South Korea in 2010 and was known to sometimes stage nationalistic, one-man protests.
这个名叫金基宗(Kim Ki-jong)的男子在一场早餐会上使用一把长10英寸（约合25厘米）的刀袭击了马克·W·利伯特(Mark W. Lippert)大使，警方称他在2010年曾袭击日本驻韩国大使，被判两年徒刑缓期执行，并曾独自一人进行民族主义抗议活动。
Mr. Kim said he assaulted Mr. Lippert to protest continuing joint military exercises between the United States and South Korea, which some South Koreans fear make reconciliation with North Korea harder.
金基宗说他袭击利伯特是为了抗议韩美两国持续进行的联合军事演习，一些韩国人担心这会令南北和解愈发困难。
“The man who attacked the ambassador is very much a fringe element, with a personal history of political violence, who represents no broader sentiment or trend among the Korean public,” said John Delury, an American professor at Yonsei University in Seoul. “It would be a mistake to interpret the spasm of violence by this single individual as indicative of some larger anti-American feeling in South Korea.”
“袭击大使的男子是个非常边缘的人物，有政治暴力前科，他并不代表韩国公众中的任何普遍情绪或趋向，”首尔延世大学(Yonsei University)的美国教授鲁乐汉(John Delury)说。“不能把这样一个单一个体的突发暴行，解读成韩国存在某种较普遍的反美情绪。”
Although anti-American sentiment has sometimes revealed itself in South Korea, a strong United States ally, in recent years those feelings have mostly moved to the fringes of society as North Korea’s nuclear threat has grown and China aggressively asserted its influence in the region. Professor DeLury said Mr. Lippert, who became ambassador last year, had won fans among South Koreans “with an almost boyish enthusiasm for being in Korea and penchant for taking strolls in public.”
在一些时期，韩国曾经有过反美情绪的表露，但作为美国的坚定盟友，加之朝鲜的核威胁加大和中国在该地区的大举势力扩张，近年来这种情绪已经基本上转向社会边缘。鲁乐汉说，去年就任大使的利伯特“对于在韩国的经历抱着一种近乎孩子般的热情，喜欢到外面逛，”因此赢得了韩国人的喜爱。
Mr. Lippert was in stable condition on Thursday after surgery, said Robert W. Ogburn, a spokesman at the American Embassy. The ambassador suffered a four-inch-long cut to the right side of his face, which required 80 stitches, as well as stab wounds on his left arm and hand, which he appeared to have sustained while resisting the attack, doctors at Yonsei University’s Severance Hospital in Seoul said.
美国大使馆发言人罗伯特·W·奥格本(Robert W. Ogburn)说，利伯特在周四接受手术后状况稳定。首尔延世大学世博兰斯医院(Severance Hospital)的医生说，大使在面部右侧有一道长四英寸的伤口，需缝80针，另外在左臂和手上有刺伤，看起来是在反抗时被伤及。
Mr. Lippert, who often interacts with the South Korean public through social media, was upbeat on Thursday on Twitter.
经常通过社交网络与韩国民众互动的利伯特，周四在Twitter上表现得很乐观。
“Doing well & in great spirits!” he posted from his hospital bed. “Will be back ASAP to advance US-ROK alliance,” referring to the Republic of Korea, South Korea’s official name, by its initials.
“情况不错，而且精神很好！”他在医院病床上发推说。“会尽快回来，继续促进美韩同盟，”文中使用了韩国的正式名称“大韩民国”(Republic of Korea)的英文缩写。
Mr. Lippert ended his message with a Korean phrase, which the United States has adopted as a motto for the alliance: “Gachi gapsida” or “Let’s go together!” Hundreds of local well-wishers left messages on his family blog, some apologizing for the attack.
在推文最后，利伯特写了一句美国在美韩结盟中引为座右铭的韩文习语，意为“一起向前！”数以百计的韩国人在他的家庭博客上留言祝福，有些人还为袭击事件表达歉意。
The attack shook the government of South Korea and raised questions about lapses in security. After an emergency meeting of vice ministers, the government vowed a “stern punishment” for officials for failing to protect Mr. Lippert.
袭击事件令韩国政府大为震惊，并怀疑安保工作存在失职。政府在举行一次紧急副部长级会议后表示，没能尽到保护利伯特职责的政府官员一定会受到“严惩”。
Yoon Myeong-song, a police chief of the Jongno district in Seoul, told reporters that the police did not check the people entering the breakfast meeting, where Mr. Lippert was to speak, because the embassy had not requested it. Mr. Yoon added that the police had deployed 28 officers around the restaurant, and that some of those officers joined the meeting’s attendees in subduing the attacker.
首尔钟路警察署署长尹明星(Yoon Myeong-song)对记者说，由于利伯特没有要求，警方没有在大使发表讲话的早餐会上对入场人员进行检查。尹明星还说，警方在餐厅周围部署了28名警察，其中一些警察协同出席餐会的人们制服了袭击者。
On Thursday, South Korea moved swiftly to stem any fallout in relations. President Park Geun-hye, who was visiting the United Arab Emirates, called Mr. Kim’s assault an “intolerable attack on the South Korean-United States alliance.” She also called Mr. Lippert to offer her wishes for an early recovery. Ms. Park herself suffered a similar wound to her face in 2006 when a man attacked her with a box cutter.
为避免美韩关系受损，韩国在周日迅速行动起来。正在阿联酋访问的总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)称金基宗的袭击是“对韩美同盟发起的一次不可容忍的攻击”。她还致电利伯特，祝愿他早日康复。朴槿惠自己在2006年曾被一名男子用美工刀划伤，在面部留下一道类似的伤口。
At the time of Mr. Kim’s 2010 attack on the Japanese ambassador, in which he hurled concrete chunks, the activist said he was protesting Japan’s territorial claim to disputed islands.
2010年袭击日本大使时，金基宗抛掷了水泥块，这名激进分子说他那是在抗议日本对争议岛屿的领土主张。
“He showed up at rallies of other nationalists or progressives, but he was mostly a loner,” said Kim Ky-baek, a fellow nationalist who said he had known the attacker for years. Among local reporters, the assailant was known largely for holding one-man rallies in front of the Japanese Embassy demanding that Japan atone for its brutal colonial rule of Korea. After several trips to North Korea, he also began taking up anti-American causes, such as demanding that American troops withdraw from South Korea.
“他会去其他民族主义者或改革派的集会，但绝大多数时候都是独自行动，”自称和他相识多年的民族主义者金起柏（Kim Ky-baek，音）说。当地记者大多是通过他在日本大使馆前的一次个人抗议活动知道这个人的，当时他要求日本为其在韩国的残酷殖民统治忏悔。在多次前往朝鲜后，他又开始了反美行动，比如要求美国军队撤离韩国。
Even though the police say Kim Ki-jong was a lone assailant, his action gives North Korea an opportunity to play on South Koreans’ “ambivalence toward the United States and pan-Korean ethnic nationalism,” said Lee Sung-yoon, a Korea expert at Tufts University.
塔夫茨大学(Tufts University)的韩国专家李成允(Lee Sung-yoon)说，尽管警方称金基宗是唯一袭击者，他的行为还是让朝鲜可以趁机利用韩国“在美国和朝韩民族主义问题上的矛盾心态”。
Although South Koreans generally welcome the 28,500 American troops in their country, many have long held grievances against the United States for agreeing with the Soviet Union to divide Korea at the end of World War II. Some also have accused Washington of backing South Korea’s previous military dictators despite their brutality.
对于驻扎在其国土上的28500名美军士兵，韩国人总体上持欢迎态度，但很多人至今仍不满美国在二战后与苏联达成协议，将朝鲜半岛一分为二。还有些人指责华盛顿支持从前的残暴军事独裁者。
South Koreans’ mixed feelings about the United States have bubbled to the surface in the past. In 2005, Korean War veterans guarded a statue of Gen. Douglas MacArthur in Incheon, where he led an amphibious assault that turned the tide of the war, as activists tried to topple it as a symbol of unwanted foreign influence.
韩国对美国的复杂情感，在过去曾有过爆发。2005年，参加过朝鲜战争的老兵在仁川一座道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟(Douglas MacArthur)塑像前守卫，阻止企图将其推倒的活动人士，后者认为，这位用一场两栖登陆行动扭转了战局的将军是不请自来的外国势力的象征。
In 2008, large demonstrations occupied the boulevard near the United States Embassy for several weeks, calling their government’s agreement to lift a ban on American beef imports another example of giving in to American pressure.
2008年，美国大使馆附近一条大道被大量示威者占据，抗议活动持续了数周时间，抗议者认为，政府取消对美国牛肉的进口禁令，是屈从于美国压力的又一例证。