SEOUL, South Korea — A flight attendant for Korean Air who was kicked off a plane after macadamia nuts in an unopened package were served to an airline executive accused Korean Air and government officials on Thursday of trying to whitewash the incident.
韩国首尔——因为向航空公司高管送上未开封的夏威夷果仁而被赶下飞机的那名大韩航空(Korean Air)空乘人员，周四指控大韩航空及政府官员试图掩盖此事。
The executive, Cho Hyun-ah, 40, a daughter of the airline’s chairman, became enraged when a flight attendant in first class served her nuts in a bag instead of on a plate on Dec. 5. She forced Korean Air Flight 86, already taxiing at John F. Kennedy Airport in New York and bound for Incheon, South Korea, to return to the gate to kick the senior steward, Park Chang-jin, off the plane.
涉事高管——40岁的赵显娥(Cho Hyun-ah)——是大韩航空社长的女儿，12月5日，当一名头等舱空乘为她送上一包尚未开封的果仁，而没有将其盛放在盘子里时，她勃然大怒，迫使已经在纽约约翰·F·肯尼迪机场(J. F. Kennedy Airport)沿跑道滑行准备飞往韩国仁川的大韩航空KE86航班返回登机口，并将高级空乘朴昌镇（Park Chang-jin，音译）赶下飞机。
Ms. Cho’s outburst set off public outrage, prompting the government to investigate whether her conduct had violated aviation laws. But in an interview with the South Korean television network KBS that was broadcast on Thursday, Mr. Park said that from the moment the episode was leaked to the news media, Korean Air tried to protect Ms. Cho, then a vice president of the airline, at all costs, even coercing crew members into lying to government investigators.
赵显娥发火事件引发了公众愤怒，促使政府调查她的行为是否已经违反航空法。但韩国电视台KBS周四播放的节目显示，朴昌镇在接受采访时表示，从新闻媒体得知该事件的那一刻开始，大韩航空就不惜一切代价，设法保护当时担任副社长的赵显娥，甚至强迫机组人员对政府调查人员撒谎。
“They already had a script,” Mr. Park told KBS. “They concocted various excuses for why she could not help but get enraged, and told us to admit to them.”
“他们有一个脚本，”朴昌镇告诉KBS。“他们为她忍不住发火的行为编造了各种理由，并让我们承认这些说法。”
Korean Air did not comment on the allegations of a cover-up, pending an investigation by prosecutors. The transport ministry, which questioned Mr. Park, said it would conduct an internal audit of its investigators to see if they collaborated with Korean Air executives to hush up the scandal.
大韩航空没有就掩盖事件的指控发表评论，致使检方的调查悬而未决。曾质询朴昌镇的交通部称，该部门将对调查人员展开内部调查，查明他们是否曾与大韩航空的高管串通一气，掩盖这起丑闻。
Mr. Park, who as a senior flight attendant was berated by Ms. Cho over the nut service, said a higher-ranking employee suggested a statement for him to present to investigators. Then, he said, when he was being questioned by officials from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, Korean Air executives were either present or within earshot to make sure that he did not deviate from the script. Government investigators even let Korean Air executives ask questions, guiding Mr. Park to answer them with a yes or no, he said.
作为高级空乘的朴昌镇因为送上坚果的服务而遭赵显娥斥责，他还说一名职位较高的工作人员曾对他提交给调查人员的证词提出建议。他说，而后当韩国国土交通部(Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport)的官员对他进行质询时，大韩航空的高管要么在现场，要么在听得见他们谈话的地方，以确保他的说法与之前拟定的脚本没有出入。他说，政府调查人员甚至还让大韩航空的高管提问题，引导朴昌镇做出是或否的回答。
“I determined that I would never have a fair investigation,” said Mr. Park, explaining why he did not respond to another summons from the investigators and instead gave his acccount to the news media. In an interview on Friday with KBS, he said that Ms. Cho had made him and a junior steward who had served the nuts apologize on their knees, and that she had also hit his hand with a plastic folder of in-flight service manuals.
“我确信，我永远不会得到公正调查，”朴昌镇说。他还解释了自己为何没有回应调查人员的另一次传唤，而是向媒体讲述了事件经过。周五在接受KBS采访时，他说赵显娥曾让他和另一名送上坚果的低级别空乘下跪道歉，还用飞行服务手册的塑料文件夹打了他的手。