SEOUL, South Korea — The head of the company whose ferry sank in April, killing more than 300 people in one of South Korea’s worst disasters in decades, was convicted on Thursday of accidental homicide and embezzlement and sentenced to 10 years in prison.
韩国首尔——韩国一家航运公司的负责人周四被判犯有意外杀人罪和贪污罪，获10年有期徒刑，该公司渡轮今年四月份沉没，导致300多人死亡，那是韩国几十年来最严重的灾难之一。
Kim Han-sik, 71, the chief executive of Chonghaejin Marine Company, was among 11 officials from the ferry operator, the cargo company Union Transport and the port inspector Korea Shipping Association who were on trial for their roles in the disaster.
清海镇海运公司总经理金韩世现年71岁，他是因沉船灾难而受审的11名人员之一，其他人分别来自渡轮运营商及货运公司Union Transport，还有韩国海运工会的港口检查员。
All but one were convicted of accidental homicide and other criminal charges. Seven of the officials were sentenced to two to six years in prison. Two officials were given suspended prison terms. One, a senior ship inspector, was acquitted of obstruction of justice, the only charge he faced.
这些人除一人外，都被判犯有意外杀人罪或其他刑事罪行。其中七名官员被分别判处2年至6年有期徒刑。两名官员被判监禁、缓期执行。一名被指控妨碍司法的高级航管被判无罪，这是他面临的唯一指控。
The ferry Sewol tilted sharply while making a turn in a shipping lane off the southwestern coast of South Korea on April 16. It failed to right itself and sank, killing 304 people, most of them high school students on a field trip.
4月16日，在韩国西南沿海航道中行使的“世越号”（Sewol, 旧译“岁月号”）渡轮在转弯时大幅倾斜。船身未能自我矫正，后来沉没，造成304人死亡，其中大多数是去春游的高中学生。
Investigators later concluded that the ferry had become dangerously top-heavy and unbalanced after Chonghaejin Marine added more cabins on its upper decks to accommodate extra passengers. The ferry operator also colluded with the cargo company and port inspectors to regularly overload the ship, the investigators said.
调查者后来的结论是，清海镇海运公司为了容纳更多的乘客，在渡轮的上层甲板增添了客舱，让船身重心过高，导致失去平衡的危险。调查者说，渡轮运营商还勾结货运公司和港口检查员，经常让船只超载。
On its last voyage, the Sewol was carrying twice as much cargo as legally allowed, according to court documents. The ship’s crew had reduced the amount of ballast water it carried at its bottom for stability so that it could accommodate the routine excess cargo, investigators said.
据法庭文件称，在“世越号”最后的一次航行中，船上携带的货物是其法定载量的两倍。调查者说，船员为了让船能容纳这种经常性的超载，减少了船底用以稳定船身的压舱水。
“The defendants had known that the ship was unstable and that if it sank, it was highly likely that passengers would die or get injured,” the district court in Gwangju, a city in southwestern South Korea, said in a statement explaining the verdicts on Thursday.
韩国西南城市光州一家地方法院周四在一份解释宣判的声明中说，“被告知道船身不稳定，如果船沉没，会有极大可能导致乘客死亡或受伤。”
This month, another South Korean court sentenced Yoo Dae-kyoon, the eldest son of Yoo Byung-eun, a business mogul who controlled a fleet of companies, including Chonghaejin Marine, to three years in prison for embezzlement. The authorities accused members of the Yoo family of stealing the equivalent of millions of dollars from the ferry company, money they said could have been used for safety measures that were not put in place on the Sewol.
本月，另一家韩国法院因贪污罪判处俞大均（Yoo Dae-kyoon，音译）3年徒刑，他是控制着众多公司、包括清海镇海运的商业大亨俞炳彦的长子。当局指控俞家人从渡轮公司侵吞了相当于数百万美元的钱款，他们说，这些钱本该用于“世越号”上缺失的安全措施。
The senior Mr. Yoo was found dead in July while on the run from criminal charges.
韩国警方今年七月发现俞炳彦死亡，当时他已被通缉在逃。
In its ruling on Thursday, the Gwangju court said that Mr. Kim, the chief executive of Chonghaejin Marine, had helped the Yoo family embezzle company funds. He also failed to act after junior officials told him about the ship’s instability, and even encouraged them to overload the ship with poorly lashed cargo in order to generate profits, the court said.
光州法院在周四的判决中说，清海镇海运公司总经理金韩世曾帮助俞家挪用公司资金。在下级管理人员告诉他船身不稳定后，他没有采取行动，甚至鼓励他们允许船只超载，还不把货物绑牢，以增加盈利，法院说。