LOS ANGELES — Two days before Justin Bieber’s 18th birthday he was, as usual, working. He walked into the main control room at Record Plant, a recording studio here, his blue-and-pink high-top Balenciaga sneakers unlaced, nodding his head to a sinuous beat blaring over the speakers.
洛杉矶——在18岁生日的两天前，贾斯汀·比伯像平时一样开工。他走进洛杉矶录音棚“唱片工场”(Record Plant)的主控制室，脚上蓝粉相间的巴黎世家高帮球鞋没系鞋带。扩音器里音乐轰鸣，比伯跟着它的起伏节奏点着头。
On this Tuesday night in February Mr. Bieber was a few weeks into recording his second full-length album, “Believe” (RBMG/Island). The studio was crowded with songwriters trying to turn that beat into a hit; with Mr. Bieber’s relatives, in town for his birthday; with a security guard; with various assistants.
这是今年2月一个星期二的晚上，再过几个星期，比伯就要录制他的第二张全尺寸专辑（黑胶唱片的一种，转速为每分钟100/3转，收录歌曲达到10首(每面5-6首)，记录时间60-80分钟(每面30-40分钟)。由于这已接近黑胶唱片时代的最高标准，因此，也叫全尺寸专辑——译注）《Believe》（RBMG/Island唱片公司）了。录音棚里挤满了人：其中有词曲作者，他们试图把那些节奏变成一张大热新碟；也有比伯的亲戚，他们前来洛杉矶庆祝他的生日；此外还有一名保安和各种助理人员。
Then there was Kuk Harrell, the only person not openly vying for Mr. Bieber’s attention, who moved through the scrum quietly, every so often checking settings on a computer.
再有就是库克·哈勒尔，惟一一个没想着引起比伯注意的人。他悄然穿过杂乱的人群，时不时地检查一下电脑上的设置。
Mr. Harrell is Mr. Bieber’s vocal producer, filling a many-layered and amorphous job: part vocal coach, part cheerleader, part sound engineer, part therapist. At this studio he’s a star, too: the nameplate on a kick scooter at the front desk just says, “KUK.”
哈勒尔是比伯的配唱制作人，他负责多个层次的、没有明确定义的工作：既是声乐老师，又是啦啦队员，既是录音师，又是治疗师。在这个录音棚里，哈勒尔也是一位明星：前台一辆滑板车的铭牌上仅仅写着“库克”。
Pop music’s universe of celebrities has widened in recent years to include producers and songwriters; they’re as crucial to what you hear on the radio as the stars, and increasingly known to the public. But there are deeper levels of highly specialized talent, just as integral, that often go unrecognized.
近年来，流行音乐名人圈已经开始涵盖制作人和词曲作者了；这些人对歌曲的重要程度不亚于歌星，他们的名字也正在变得广为人知。但是，还有一些同样重要，但却更加“幕后”的高度专业化人才依然在公众中默默无闻。
Mr. Harrell, 47, is one of those figures, shaping the sound of radio from the shadows. His client roster also includes Jennifer Lopez and Rihanna, and his job is to make sure that the star’s vocal is as powerful and flawless as it can be.
现年47岁的哈勒尔就是这些人中的一个，他在幕后打造你在电台中听到的歌声。哈勒尔的客户还有珍妮弗·洛佩兹(Jennifer Lopez)和蕾哈娜，他的工作就是确保这些明星们的声音尽可能地富于表现力，尽可能地完美无暇。
That happens in parts. In the studio, rarely, if ever, does a star sing a song the whole way through. Instead Mr. Harrell builds a gleaming whole from granular bits. A singer working with Mr. Harrell covers a few bars — a line or two, maybe four — over and over, with different emphases and inflections, until Mr. Harrell hears what he wants. The process repeats for each section. Only later, after the singer is gone, does Mr. Harrell stitch the best pieces together, Frankenstein-like, into the song you hear.
“完美无瑕”是以片段的方式出现的。在录音棚里，几乎没有哪个歌星把一首歌从头唱到尾，相反，他们一小截一小截地唱，然后哈勒尔再把这些录音片段拼接成光彩照人的整首歌。跟哈勒尔合作的歌手会一遍又一遍地用不同的重音和音调变化唱一些小节—— 一句或两句，也许四句——直到哈勒尔听到他想要的效果为止。每个部分都要经过这样的重复。歌手离去后，哈勒尔再把最好的片段拼接在一起，就像拼接科学怪人弗兰肯斯坦(Frankenstein)那样，制作出你听到的歌。
On this night Mr. Bieber retired to a smaller studio in the back of the building to work on “Sunday Morning,” an aching midtempo ballad, warming up by singing long stretches of the song. But once Mr. Harrell sat down at the computer, they broke “Sunday Morning” down into small vocal bites, with Mr. Bieber sometimes echoing what Mr. Harrell sang to him moments before. All the while Mr. Harrell’s eyes remained fixed on the computer screen, where each new take was represented in ProTools, the production software, by a jagged line, like heart-rate tracings on an EKG, inside a brightly colored rectangle. The data were piling up.
当天晚上，比伯躲到这栋楼后部一个较小的录音室里录制《Sunday Morning》。这是一首伤感的中速民谣，比伯唱了很长一段来热身。但是，当哈勒尔在电脑前面坐下后，他们就把《Sunday Morning》分解成一个个小片段。有时候哈勒尔先唱一段，比伯再模仿他唱。哈勒尔的眼睛一直盯着电脑屏幕，音乐制作软件ProTools在屏幕上显示出新输入的声音数据：锯齿状的曲线看上去像心电图，出现在一个颜色鲜艳的矩形框里。就这样，《Sunday Morning》的数据不断积累起来。
Stitching the Best Bits
拼接最佳片段
Vocal production can be a tedious task, requiring patience, indulgence and discipline. Mr. Harrell’s work begins long before his client shows up, as he determines what kinds of microphone, preamplifiers and compressor will be best. When the singer is ready, he kicks into high gear.
配唱制作的工作有时候非常单调乏味，需要耐心、宽容和自制。在客户到达录音棚之前，哈勒尔就早早开始工作了，因为他要决定哪种类型的麦克风、前置放大器和压缩机才是最合适的。当歌手做好准备时，他就会全速行动起来。
“I’ll take it in chunks,” Mr. Harrell explained, sitting in his all-white apartment the day before the Bieber recording session. “If they sang it amazing, I’ll get the first chunk and go, ‘Oh that was beautiful.’ Boom. I’ll drag that up.”
“我一个片段一个片段地录，”在比伯录音开始的前一天，哈勒尔坐在他的全白色公寓里解释说：“如果他们唱得非常好，我会录到出彩的片段，说‘哦，唱得太漂亮了’。我会用上这段。”
The process then repeats. “So I’ll begin to search through all the playlists I have of that ‘moment’ and go, ‘Ah, there it is,’ then I’ll drag that moment up into the comp” — the compiled vocal — “and so on. All the way down, until I get to the end of the record and have a complete final comp.”
然后重复这个过程。“之后，我搜索含有这种‘出彩时刻’的播放列表，‘哈，它在这里’，然后我把这个‘出彩时刻’拖曳到并轨轨道——也就是编辑好的录音里。然后就一直重复这样的过程，直到最后做出一个完整的最终音轨为止。”
In the studio he’s enthusiastic but calm, direct and not sycophantic. Lean and slight, he’s got a high hairline and long curtain of hair that recalls the comedian Katt Williams. Most of the time he’s at the computer, a cap often pulled low over his eyes, his back upright and rigid. Even though he’s seated, he appears to be on tiptoes.
在录音棚里，哈勒尔既热情洋溢，又镇定、坦率，不搞阿谀奉承那一套。他身材偏瘦，发际线较高，发帘较长，让人想起喜剧演员卡特·威廉姆斯(Katt Williams)。哈勒尔大多数时候都在电脑前面，一顶帽子一直压到眼睛上方，腰板挺得笔直。即使在坐着的时候，也是一副小心谨慎的样子。
After an hour or two of takes the singer’s work is done. Mr. Harrell then “tunes” the compiled vocal, making sure the pitch is precise, and “grooves” it, matching it precisely to the rhythm of the backing track.
过了一两个钟头，歌手的录音完成了。哈勒尔会“调校”编辑好的录音，确保音准完美无误，然后打磨歌曲的律动，好让歌手的演唱部分与伴奏的节奏配合得天衣无缝。
Though he’s reliant upon technology, Mr. Harrell insists that most of his work is navigating personalities, getting stars to trust him when they’re in the recording booth, at their most vulnerable. “It’s never, ‘Man, you screwed up,’ ” he said. “I can tell Jennifer she’s not singing it the right way without telling her that she’s not singing it the right way: ‘Give it a sexy vibe like you’re singing in the shower,’ or ‘Sing it like no one else is in the room.’ ”
虽然在配唱制作中要依赖科技，但哈勒尔坚称他的主要工作是：当明星在录音间里最脆弱的时候，他为他们领航带路，让他们可以信任他。“我永远不会说‘哥们儿，你搞砸了。’”他说，“我可以不用说‘你唱的方式不对’就让珍妮弗明白她唱的方式不对，我会说‘加点小性感，就像你在淋浴的时候唱歌一样’或者说‘就像这房间里没别人一样’。”
Ms. Lopez said that Mr. Harrell “can find your strengths, and he can pull those out,” adding, “Everything is always done in an encouraging sort of way. One of his favorite lines — I don’t know if he uses it with everybody, but he uses it with me — is: ‘That’s a superstar performance right there! That’s it!’ And it just makes you feel so great about what you’re doing.”
洛佩兹说，哈勒尔“可以发现你的优势，并帮助你把这些优势发挥出来”。而且“他始终以一种令人鼓舞的方式做到所有这一切。他最喜欢说一句话——我不知道他是对每个人都这么说，还是只跟我这么说——就是：‘这下子唱出巨星级水准了！就是这样唱！’他真的会让你觉得自己很棒。”
For each of his regular artists Mr. Harrell has a bank of such phrases. “I have this term that I use with Jennifer all the time,” he said. “I go, ‘Put that cry in it, let me hear that cry,’ and she knows what that means.” With Rihanna he’ll push her with “There she is! She just showed up!”
哈勒尔对他的每个常客都有一套这样的激励语。“跟珍妮弗一起工作时，我总是用某些词语，”他说：“我会说‘喊出来，这里加点喊叫声’，她知道那是什么意思。”对蕾哈娜，他的鼓励语则是“她办到了！她刚刚露了一手！“
The final product then, is an amalgam: the songwriter’s original lyric and melody, the singer’s particular tone and approach, and Mr. Harrell’s instinct and ear for how the artist can sound.
所以，哈勒尔的最终产品是一个混合体：词曲作者的原创歌词和旋律，歌手独特的音色和演绎方式，以及哈勒尔的音乐本能和耳朵对声音的把关。
“He knows where my voice can sit and what notes I can hit,” Mr. Bieber said. “Sometimes I wouldn’t try for it ’cause I didn’t think I could hit it, and then if he goes, ‘Just go for it Justin,’ I go for it.”
“他知道我能唱多高，唱多低。”比伯说：“有时候我觉得某个音自己唱不准，所以就不想尝试。如果他说，‘你只管去唱好了，贾斯汀’，那我就会去尝试。”
For Mr. Bieber, whom Mr. Harrell has been working with since his first professional recordings four years ago, Mr. Harrell has “become kind of an uncle,” Mr. Bieber said.
比伯自从4年前第一次参加专业录音开始，就一直在跟哈勒尔合作。他说哈勒尔从某种意义上已经成了他的“一个叔叔”。
But Mr. Harrell noted, “If I’m not careful, I can let that turn into, ‘We’re buddies, we hang out,’ and I can’t press him.”
但哈勒尔指出，“如果我不小心，可能就会把那种关系变成‘好哥们’的关系，那样的话我可就不能这么逼他了。” 
“With Justin I always go, ‘Give me J. B.’ And he goes, ‘What’s J. B.?’ And I’ll go, ‘You know, J. B. is that.’ ” Here Mr. Harrell does a credible impression of Mr. Bieber’s falsetto. “When I show him that, he goes, ‘Oh, I got it.’ They just needed me to show them exactly what it was.”
“在跟贾斯汀合作时，我总是说，‘唱出J.B.来’他说‘什么是J.B.？’我就会说，‘你知道的，J.B.就是那个呀’。”于是哈勒尔惟妙惟肖地模仿比伯唱假声。“当我学他唱假声时，他说，‘噢，我明白了。’他们只需要我演示一下我说的东西具体是什么。”
Mr. Harrell’s clients also look to him for guidance on what they might not be able to pull off on a certain day. “Rihanna will walk in, and if we have a bunch of songs to do, she’ll say, ‘What do you want to do, Kuk?’ ” he said. “She understands that I’ve watched her. I should know as her vocal producer, if her voice is pretty tired, let’s record all the stuff that’s in a lower register. Let’s not try to get high notes because I know we won’t get there.”
客户们也有赖于哈勒尔的指导，因为他可以根据他们的状态做适当的安排。“蕾哈娜到录音棚来的时候，如果我们有很多首歌要录，她就会问，‘你想录哪首，库克？’”他说：“ 她知道我会为她着想。作为她的配唱制作人，我应该判断出来当天她的嗓子是不是很疲惫，如果是那样，我们就会录低声区，不要去尝试高音，因为我知道那天她没法唱好高音。”
When superstars work with Mr. Harrell, they aren’t running to the machines and away from their own voices. Quite the opposite: they’re trying to ensure that they sound as engaged and alive as possible. Paradoxical as it seems, working with newfangled technology and old-fashioned pep talks Mr. Harrell makes singers sound even more like themselves.
跟哈勒尔合作时，巨星们不希望用机器来改变他们自己的声音。恰恰相反：他们想让自己听上去尽可能地既专注投入，又鲜活真实。虽然听上去可能有点矛盾，但哈勒尔确实利用最新的技术和老式的言语鼓励，帮助歌手听起来更像他们自己了。 
“We want to enhance the artist’s authenticity,” said Chris Hicks, who was until recently executive vice president at Island Def Jam, home to Mr. Bieber, Ms. Lopez and Rihanna. “You buy a Bieber or Rihanna because you believe in them, and this is part of that.”
Island Def Jam唱片公司不久前上任的执行副总裁克里斯·希克斯(Chris Hicks)说：“我们希望提高艺人声音的真实性。你买比伯或蕾哈娜的专辑，是因为你信任他们，而信任就涉及了真实性。”比伯、洛佩兹和蕾哈娜都是这家公司旗下的歌手。 
And so it falls to Mr. Harrell not just to elicit sterling vocal performances, but also to preserve and highlight what’s distinctive about each voice: Ms. Lopez’s blend of husk and flirt, Rihanna’s petulant purr, Mr. Bieber’s sweet coo.
所以哈勒尔需要承担重任，不仅要将歌手的声音打磨得熠熠生辉，还需要保留并突出每个歌手歌喉的特质：洛佩兹的沙哑与挑逗，蕾哈娜任性的喉音，比伯甜美的轻唱。
“Rihanna, you hear two bars — Oh, my God, that’s Rihanna,” Mr. Harrell said. “You can hear that tone in your head.”
“一首歌你刚听了两个小节，就听出它是蕾哈娜唱的，”哈勒尔说，“你脑海里有一个声音说—— 噢，我的上帝，那是蕾哈娜唱的。”
A Ministry of Sound
宗教之声
Mr. Harrell, whose given name is Thaddis, was born in 1964 into a musical Chicago family. His mother, Vivian Haywood, and her two sisters were “the go-to jingle singers in Chicago,” he said. Mr. Harrell was a studio rat, watching and learning, while drumming in the school band, singing in the church choir and ordering Heart, Spyro Gyra and Van Halen albums from a mail-order record club.
哈勒尔大名塞迪斯 (Thaddis)，1964年出生于芝加哥的一个音乐家庭。他说，母亲维维安·海伍德(Vivian Haywood)和她两个姐妹是“芝加哥专家级的广告歌曲歌手”。 哈勒尔小时候喜欢在录音棚里溜达，观察和学习各种东西。他在学校乐队打鼓，在教堂唱诗班唱歌，还通过唱片邮购俱乐部购买红心合唱团(Heart)、螺旋藻 (Spyro Gyra) 和范·海伦(Van Halen)的专辑。
In the early 1990s he and several family members — including one of his cousins, the future songwriter Tricky Stewart (Mariah Carey’s “Touch My Body,” Britney Spears’s “Me Against the Music”) — moved to Los Angeles to give the record business a go. But after a few years with limited success Mr. Harrell became disillusioned.
20世纪90年代初，哈勒尔和几个亲戚前往洛杉矶，准备在唱片界一展身手。这其中也包括他的堂亲，后来成为词曲作者的特里基·斯图尔特(Tricky Stewart)（创作过玛丽亚·凯莉 (Mariah Carey)的《Touch My Body》和小甜甜布兰妮 (Britney Spears)的《Me Against the Music》）。但几年时间过去了，哈勒尔没有闯出什么名堂，他大失所望，不再对此抱有幻想。
A neighbor convinced him to visit the Christian Assembly Foursquare Church in Eagle Rock, near Pasadena, where Mr. Harrell was first exposed to the world of worship music, the ecstatic rock-driven prayer sessions that were just then beginning to become common in larger churches, a complement to gospel’s role in the black church. Watching the worship leader, Tommy Walker, Mr. Harrell recalled, “I remember thinking, ‘This sounds like Toto,’ ” the polyglot soft-rock band (“Africa”) popular in the early 1980s. “ ‘I’ve never seen this before in church.’ ”
听到一位邻居的介绍后，哈勒尔前往帕萨迪纳附近的老鹰岩，参观了那里的基督徒四方教堂(Christian Assembly Foursquare Church)。这是哈勒尔第一次接触到礼拜音乐(worship music)：一种带动教众祈祷的狂热摇滚乐，当时这种音乐刚开始在较大的教会中兴起，它对黑人教会中的福音音乐起到了补充。哈勒尔回忆说，当他看到礼拜领唱者汤米·沃克(Tommy Walker)的表演时，“我记得我想，‘这听起来像托托合唱团(Toto)。’我以前从来没有在教堂里见过这种场面。”托托合唱团是一支在20世纪80年代初走红的软摇滚乐队（其作品有《Africa》），可用多种语言演唱作品。 
Soon he’d abandoned the music industry altogether to become the church’s children’s worship leader. “I heard it clear as day,” he said. “God speaking in my heart and going: ‘Look at what you’re doing. There will never ever be anything more important than what you’re doing at this moment.’ ”
不久，哈勒尔就彻底放弃唱片业，成为了这个教堂的儿童礼拜领唱者。他说：“我听得一清二楚，上帝在我心中说：‘看看你正在做的事情。没有什么比你此刻做的事情更重要了’。”
A few years later he began working with the music side of the Promise Keepers, the mid-1990s Christian men’s movement. His first gold album came for some production work he did on the 1996 Promise Keepers album, “Break Down the Walls” (Maranatha). Eventually he and Mr. Stewart joined up again.
几年后，他开始参与“守约者”组织(Promise Keepers)的音乐事务。“守约者”是20世纪90年代中期的一个基督教男性组织。哈勒尔在1996年参与制作的“守约者”专辑《Break Down the Walls》(Maranatha)是他第一张达到金唱片销量的专辑。终于，他和斯图尔特再度会师。 
“It turned into, ‘O.K., you just produce vocals all day, give the files back to me,’ Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis, tight production,” Mr. Harrell said of those days, referring to the producers who gave Janet Jackson her early sonic identity. Mr. Harrell’s years as a worship leader, he said, gave him the people skills and humility to work with superstars.
哈勒尔谈到那段日子的时候说：“事情变成：‘这样吧，你就完全制作录音，然后把文件发回给我’、吉米·詹姆(Jimmy Jam) 和特里·刘易斯(Terry Lewis)，大家密切合作。”詹姆和刘易斯都是制作人，曾打造过珍妮特·杰克逊(Janet Jackson)早期的声音特征。哈勒尔说，他当礼拜领唱者那几年的经历，培养了他跟超级巨星合作的人际交往能力和谦逊态度。 
He and Mr. Stewart began getting high-profile work. They helped write “Umbrella,” one of the signature pop songs of the last decade, for Rihanna, and for which Mr. Harrell won one of his four Grammys.
哈勒尔和斯图尔特逐渐创作了一些广为人知的作品。他们为蕾哈娜写的《Umbrella》不仅成为了过去10年中的经典流行歌曲之一，而且也为哈勒尔赢得一座格莱美奖。至今为止，哈勒尔总共已经获得了4座莱美奖。
Working with Mr. Stewart, Mr. Harrell began to refine his talent for producing vocals to the level where his biggest clients won’t record without him.
在和斯图尔特共事期间，哈勒尔的配唱制作天赋逐渐臻于成熟：他操刀的作品水准之高，到了“他不在场，大牌客户就不愿录音”的程度。
For a singer (and his or her label), having a vocal producer is still an indulgence, available only to the heavily budgeted and fastidious. Having the certainty of Mr. Harrell’s ear comes with a price: several thousand dollars per song and, more significant, a cut of the royalties.
对于歌手（以及他或她的唱片）来说，拥有一个配唱制作人仍然是一种奢侈，只有那些资金充裕、一丝不苟的歌手才请得起他们。需要哈勒尔的耳朵把关，你就得付出代价：每首歌数千美元的制作费不算什么，还有版权提成。
Those can add up. “Believe,” Mr. Bieber’s album which was released last week, had the biggest first week of any album this year, selling 374,000 copies, according to Nielsen SoundScan. And its first single, “Boyfriend,” has already sold more than 2.5 million copies.
但付出这个价格还是值得的。 尼尔森音乐统计机构(Nielsen SoundScan)的资料显示，比伯的最新大碟《Believe》上周在美国上市，首周大卖37.4万张，创下今年新碟上市首周的最高销量。其主打单曲《Boyfriend》也已售出250多万张。
“Doing what I do you can make over a million a year,” Mr. Harrell said in an e-mail.
哈勒尔在一封电子邮件中写道：“做我这份差事，年入百万不成问题。”
He has also expanded beyond vocal production. On the Bieber album he was the overall producer, supervising all of the songs at every stage of production. Interscope has given him his own imprint, Suga Wuga Entertainment, to which he’s signed a sister pop trio, Calvillo, and a rock band, Savannah Van Band. And for his primary clients he’ll often join them outside the studio to work on other projects: live shows, TV appearances and more. (He supervised the audio on last year’s 3-D concert movie “Justin Bieber: Never Say Never.”)
哈勒尔也没有止步于配唱制作工作。他还是《Believe》整张专辑的制作人，监督所有单曲的每个制作环节。相互范畴 (Interscope)唱片集团支持哈勒尔建立了自己的唱片公司Suga Wuga Entertainment，现在这家公司已经签下了姐妹三人合唱组“卡尔维略”(Calvillo)，以及摇滚乐队“萨凡纳范乐队”(Savannah Van Band)。哈勒尔还经常参与主要客户在录音棚外的一些活动：现场表演、电视节目等等 （去年他监制了3D音乐电影《贾斯汀·比伯：永不言败》[Justin Bieber: Never Say Never]。）
The pace can be relentless. During one stretch last year Mr. Harrell was working with Rihanna in London, while wrapping up Mr. Bieber’s Christmas album in his downtime, flying back to the United States a couple of times to work with Ms. Lopez. In between the Bieber sessions in February, Mr. Harrell squeezed in a night working on a song for Ciara, and when Mr. Bieber took a few days off around his birthday, Mr. Harrell got a call to work on the debut album by Melanie Amaro, the “X Factor” winner. And this month he shuttled around Latin America, traveling to Panama, Venezuela, Chile, Argentina and Brazil as he accompanied Ms. Lopez on her world tour. So far this year — in which he’s also been working with Cher, Celine Dion and Keyshia Cole — he’s taken off just 10 days.
哈勒尔的工作安排有时候异常繁忙。去年在伦敦为蕾哈娜的一个活动助阵期间，他不仅抽空给比伯的圣诞专辑收尾，还为洛佩兹飞回过美国几次。今天2月，在为比伯工作的空档期，他挤出了一个晚上为席亚拉 (Ciara)制作一首歌曲。比伯在生日期间休息了几天，哈勒尔就接到电话，前去为美国综艺节目《X音素》(X Factor)的优胜者梅拉尼·阿莫洛 (Melanie Amaro)操刀打造首张专辑。这个月，为了陪同洛佩兹举办世界巡回演唱会，哈勒尔穿梭拉丁美洲，去了巴拿马、委内瑞拉、智利、阿根廷和巴西。今年到现在为止，他还跟雪儿(Cher)、席琳·迪翁(Celine Dion)和凯西亚·科尔(Keyshia Cole)合作过——总共算下来他只休息了10天。
In His Element 
得心应手
The night after the attempt at “Sunday Morning” (which would not end up making the album) Mr. Harrell was back at Record Plant with Mr. Bieber. Again the singer was distracted; at midnight it would be his birthday. “I’m gonna get my Black Card,” he sang, “Order it tomorrow-oh-oh.”
录制《Sunday Morning》的第二天晚上（那天取得的素材还不能用来制作专辑），哈勒尔和比伯回到了“唱片工场”。比伯再一次显得心不在焉；因为在午夜时分，他将迎来自己的生日。“我就要拿到黑色信用卡了，”他唱着：“明天就去下订单——噢-噢。” 
He was working on “Believe,” the title track. An elegant, yearning love song about loyalty and trust, “Believe” could be about a family member, a girlfriend, or really, millions of fans. Mr. Bieber went into the booth to work on the swelling portion of the song.
比伯要的是唱《Believe》专辑的同名单曲，这是一首优美的、关于忠诚与信任的倾述衷肠之歌。倾述的对象可以是一个家庭成员，一位恋人，也可以是数以百万计的歌迷。比伯走进录音间，开始唱这首歌的高潮部分。
“Just look at me nowwww,” Mr. Bieber sang.
比伯唱道：“现在-哎-哎看着我。”
Mr. Harrell said, “Oooooo, put that passion on it,” his face scrunched slightly as if a light odor had just hit his nose, a sign of approbation. “Try to catch that mmmmmmm.”
哈勒尔说：“嗷，带点激情，”他的脸略略皱了起来，好像突然闻到了什么气味，这是赞许的迹象。 “试试唱喔-喔-喔。”
Mr. Bieber took the note: “Just look at mmmeee now.”
比伯明白了：“现在看着我-喔-喔。”
Mr. Bieber soon shifted to work on the song’s soaring hook, squeezing power from his light voice: “I don’t know how I got here/I knew it wouldn’t be easy/Doesn’t matter how many times I got knocked on the floor.”
比伯很快就转到了《Believe》容易让人记住的部分，他轻柔的声音中透出力量：“我不知道我是如何走到现在/我知道这并非一帆风顺/不管我多少次被击倒在地。” 
Mr. Harrell shouted: “I love it. I love that soft tone too.”
哈勒尔喊道：“好极了。那种柔和的调子也很好。”
Mr. Bieber called back, “Do it again?”
比伯问，“继续这样唱吗？”
“Absolutely,” Mr. Harrell said. “You killin’ it. I just need to understand you just a little bit more.”
“要要要，”哈勒尔说，“你搞定它了。我只是要多听你唱一点点。”
Mr. Bieber tried again. “I don’t know how I got heeeerrrre/ I knew it wouldn’t be eeeeasyyyy,” he sang, hitting the last word of each line with more power and tang.
比伯再次尝试。“我不知道我是如何走到现在-哎-哎/我知道这并非一帆风顺-嗯-嗯，”他唱道。每一句歌词的最后一个字都增加了力度，变得更加尖锐。 