With its recession-friendly coffee prices, plentiful tables and available bathrooms, McDonald’s restaurants all over the country, and even all over the world, have been adopted by a cost-conscious set as a coffeehouse for the people, a sort of everyman’s Starbucks. Behind the Golden Arches, older people seeking company and conversation, schoolchildren putting off homework time and homeless people escaping the cold have transformed the banquettes into headquarters for the kind of laid-back socializing once carried out on a park bench or brownstone stoop.
与经济衰退匹配的咖啡价格、充足的餐桌，又有卫生间可以使用，全美乃至全世界的麦当劳(McDonald’s)餐厅，都被一群会算经济账的顾客当成了平民咖啡馆，或者说像是老百姓的星巴克(Starbucks)。在金色的拱形M标志下，老人寻求陪伴与交流、学生消磨做作业前的时光，无家可归者则进来御寒。这些人把餐厅的软垫条凳变成了某种悠闲社交的大本营，扮演了公园长凳或褐砂石楼的门廊过去的角色。
But patrons have also brought the mores of cafe culture, where often a single purchase is permission to camp out with a laptop. Increasingly, they seem to linger over McCafe Lattes, sometimes spending a lot of time but little money in outlets of this chain, which rose to prominence on a very different business model: food that is always fast. And so restaurant managers and franchise owners are often frustrated by these, their most loyal customers. Such regulars hurt business, some say, and leave little room for other customers. Tensions can sometimes erupt.
然而，主顾们还带来了咖啡文化的规矩：买一样东西就意味着获得了带笔记本电脑窝一天的许可。他们似乎在麦咖啡(McCafe)的拿铁上花着越来越多的时间，有时会磨蹭很久，却只在它的连锁门店里花很少的钱。但麦当劳的崛起，倚仗的却是与此背道而驰的商业模式，即快餐至上。因此，餐厅经理与店主常常被这些最忠诚的客户搞得焦头烂额。有人说，此类常客影响了生意，害得别的客人几乎找不到位子。有时还会爆发冲突。
In the past month, those tensions came to a boil in New York City. When management at a McDonald’s in Flushing, Queens, called the police on a group of older Koreans, prompting outrage at the company’s perceived rudeness, calls for a worldwide boycott and a truce mediated by a local politician, it became a famous case of a struggle that happens daily at McDonald’s outlets in the city and beyond.
过去一个月里，这样的冲突在纽约市达到白热化的程度。在皇后区法拉盛的一家麦当劳，管理层报警驱逐一群韩裔老人。一些人对他们眼中麦当劳的粗鲁无礼表示愤慨，呼吁展开全球性的抵制活动。一名地方政坛人士出面调停，暂时促成了和解。这一事件成为了知名案例，代表了纽约及更大范围内的麦当劳门店时时面临的困境。
Is the customer always right, even the ensconced penny-pincher?
客户永远都是正确的吗，即使他们一坐不起又不愿花钱？
The answer seems to be yes among those who do the endless sitting at McDonald’s restaurants in Crown Heights, Brooklyn; Midtown Manhattan; Astoria, Queens; and the East Village.
在布鲁克林皇冠高地、曼哈顿中城、皇后区阿斯托里亚及东村占领了麦当劳的人看来，答案似乎是肯定的。
If Mike Black’s friends are looking for him, they know to check the McDonald’s on Utica Avenue in Flatbush, Brooklyn, he said. That is where Mr. Black, who is in his 50s, spends hours opening and reading his junk mail.
麦克·布莱克(Mike Black)说，如果朋友要找他，就知道去布鲁克林弗莱布许的尤蒂卡大道上的那家麦当劳看看。在那里，50多岁的布莱克一坐就是几个钟头，在那里点开和查看垃圾邮件。
“I don’t eat fast food,” he said, arguing that his one coffee entitled him to all the leisure time he needed. “I just come here to hang out and deal with my mail.”
“我不吃快餐，”他说，并且认为一杯咖啡足以允许他消磨所需的休闲时光。“我就是来这里待着，处理一下邮件。”
A few miles away at another McDonalds, a fedora-wearing crew holds court daily in a sunny seating area by the window. “Old-timers, we have been here for years; we’re kids who grew up in the neighborhood,” said Jerry Walters, 70, who was sitting with two friends. On the tables there was nary a coffee, but there was a Budweiser secreted in a paper bag. “We’re accustomed to being here.”
在几英里外的另一家麦当劳，戴着软呢帽的一群人每天在窗边的阳光位聚集。“怀旧嘛，我们在这里好多年了；小时候就在这一片长大，”70岁的杰里·沃尔特斯(Jerry Walters)说。他和两个朋友坐在一起，桌上没有摆咖啡，纸袋里却藏着一瓶百威(Budweiser)啤酒。“我们习惯来这里。”
McDonald’s is not alone in navigating this tricky territory. Last year, a group of deaf patrons sued Starbucks after a store on Astor Place in Lower Manhattan forbade their meet-up group to convene there, complaining they did not buy enough coffee. Spending the day nursing a latte is part of modern cafe culture, behavior reinforced by franchises like Starbucks and others that seem to actively cultivate the endless sitting, lavishing free Wi-Fi on customers who park their laptops in the morning and do not leave until after dark.
麦当劳不是唯一正在处理这个敏感问题的公司。去年，曼哈顿下城区阿斯特广场(Astor Place)的一家星巴克由于禁止一群失聪的客户在这里集会而遭到了起诉，星巴克的理由是这些人消费的咖啡太少。花整天的时间来品尝一杯拿铁是现代咖啡文化的组成部分，星巴克和其他连锁店似乎也积极地促进了这种无休止的静坐的发展，用户可以在这里尽情享受免费无线上网，顾客早上带着笔记本过来，直到天黑才离开。
At some of New York City’s 235 McDonald’s outlets, customers say they have adopted the fast-food franchise as a cafe for a less affluent crowd, a view bolstered by the company’s newer offerings, like McCafe coffee drinks.
纽约市共有235家麦当劳，其中一些店面的客户说，他们已经把这个快餐连锁店当成了较贫穷阶层的咖啡馆，这个观点也因为麦当劳麦咖啡的咖啡饮品等新产品而得到了加强。
“We’re pleased many of our customers view us as a comfortable place to spend time,” Lisa McComb, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an email, citing free Wi-Fi and areas for children to play as part of the appeal. “McDonald’s offers convenience and value in a fun and familiar atmosphere.”
“很多顾客都认为在我们这里消磨时光很舒适，我们对于这一点感到高兴，”麦当劳女发言人丽莎·麦库姆(Lisa McComb)在电子邮件中说。她说免费无线网络和儿童玩耍区域是吸引力的一部分。“麦当劳以一种有趣而熟悉的氛围给人们提供了舒适和价值。”
But the leisurely cafe culture and the business plan behind fast food are in opposition. Although signs hang in many McDonald’s stores instructing customers to spend half an hour or less at the tables, Ms. McComb said there was no national policy about discouraging longtime sitting. “The individual franchisees do what they feel is best for their community businesses,” she said. “In the case of Flushing, that franchisee welcomed those guests for years, and it was only when other customers felt they were no longer welcome that he attempted to adjust the visit time with the customers.”
但是，轻松的咖啡文化和快餐业背后的商业计划是相互矛盾的。麦库姆说，虽然许多麦当劳店内都悬挂着告诉客户在餐桌上停留的时间不要超过半小时的告示，但并没有任何禁止人们在店内逗留过久的国家规定。“每一家连锁店都会采取他们认为对社区商业最有利的行动，”她说。“以法拉盛为例，数年来，店主一直很欢迎这些顾客，只是因为其他顾客觉得他们不受欢迎，他才试图对这些客户的逗留时间进行调整。”
Sango Pak, who was back sitting in the Flushing McDonald’s a week after the uproar surrounding him and his peers, said convening at McDonald’s staved off sadness. “You feel lonely and bored when you are home,” he said. “Here you talk with these friends.”
在这个引发了大量公众舆论的事件发生一周之后，当事人之一朴山高（Sango Pak，音译）又回到了法拉盛的麦当劳。他说在麦当劳聚会可以减少悲伤。“在家的时候你会觉得孤独而无聊，”他说，“在这里你可以与朋友交谈。”
In a McDonald’s near Astor Place, a sign explained that customers were entitled to just 30 minutes of sitting time. But Raymos Martinez, an artist, sat tucked into a dog-eared paperback of historical fiction, and said the anonymity of the place held some appeal. “McDonald’s, it’s more like a bus stop. Nobody notices you.”
阿斯特广场的麦当劳里悬挂着一个标志，上面说顾客们只能在这里坐半小时。但艺术家雷默斯·马蒂内(Raymos Martinez)却捧着一本已经破烂不堪的历史小说坐在这里，说这里的隐匿性具有一定的吸引力。“麦当劳很像一个公交站。没人会注意到你。”
Or maybe they do. On the other side of the restaurant, in her uniform cap with the Golden Arches, Samantha Reyes, 39, swept discarded burger wrappers off the floor. She refuses to kick out those who seem to find refuge in her McDonald’s.
或许事实并非如此。在餐厅的另一边，39岁的萨曼莎·雷耶斯(Samantha Reyes)戴着带有金色拱形标志的制服帽，清扫着地上的汉堡包装。她不愿意把那些似乎在麦当劳寻求庇护的人赶走。
“For myself, I could be in the same situation,” she said. “Tomorrow, it could be me.”
“我觉得，我或许也会那样，”她说，“明天，可能就会轮到我。”