TOKYO — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, hoping to appease conservative supporters without closing the door on a hoped-for summit meeting with China’s leader, refrained from visiting a controversial war shrine in Tokyo on Friday, the 69th anniversary of the end of World War II, sending a cash offering instead.
东京——周五，在第二次世界大战结束69周年纪念日当天，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)没有参拜东京的一处备受争议的战争纪念地，只是献上了祭祀费。此举意在安抚保守派支持者，同时又不让盼望中的与中国领导人会面的机会丧失。
Some 80 Japanese politicians, including three members of Mr. Abe’s cabinet, did visit Yasukuni, the large shrine in central Tokyo that honors the nation’s war dead, including convicted war criminals. But in an apparent attempt to avoid angering China as well as South Korea, Mr. Abe did not join them, despite calls from right-wing supporters for him to pay respects by doing so.
约80名日本政界人士，包括安倍内阁的三名成员，参拜了东京市中心的靖国神社(Yasukuni)。这里供奉着日本战时的死难者，包括一些被定罪的战犯。尽管右翼支持者呼吁安倍通过参拜表达敬意，他却没有这样做。此举明显是为了避免激怒中国和韩国。
Instead, Mr. Abe sent an aide with the donation, which Mr. Abe signed as president of the Liberal Democratic Party and not in his public capacity as prime minister. The offering continues a pattern of sending gifts to the shrine instead of paying actual visits that Mr. Abe has largely followed since taking office in December 2012 amid concerns that his nationalistic views on history might isolate Japan in the region.
安倍仅派一名助手献上了祭祀费，而且是以自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)总裁的名义，并没有使用首相的公职头衔。这延续了他向靖国神社供奉祭品但不亲自参拜的惯例。自从2012年12月上台以来，面对着外界对其民族主义历史观可能令日本在地区陷入孤立的担忧，安倍基本上遵循了这一惯例。
The one time Mr. Abe did visit Yasukuni, in December, brought strong reactions not only from China and South Korea, two victims of Japan’s early-20th-century empire building, but also from the United States, Japan’s postwar protector. The Obama administration saw the visit as undermining its efforts to get Japan and South Korea, America’s two main Asian allies, to present a united front in the face of regional challenges like an increasingly assertive China and a nuclear-armed North Korea.
安倍晋三唯一一次亲自参拜靖国神社是在去年12月。此举引发的强烈反应不光来自中国和韩国——日本20世纪初军国主义扩张的受害者——还包括日本战后的庇护者美国。奥巴马政府认为，参拜一事削弱了自身的计划：让美国的两大盟友日本和韩国形成统一战线，以应对地区的种种挑战，包括日益强硬的中国，以及拥有核武器的朝鲜。
However, the show of restraint by Mr. Abe may not have been enough. The governments of China and South Korea both criticized the ministers’ visit, with China calling it a sign that Japan still does not fully feel remorse for its wartime aggression.
不过，安倍此次展示出的克制可能并不够。中国和韩国政府均谴责了日本内阁大臣参拜靖国神社的行为。中国称，此举意味着日本仍然没有对战时的侵略行为进行彻底的反省。
“Sino-Japanese relations can develop in a healthy and stable way only if Japan can face up to and reflect on the history of invasion and make a clear break with militarism,” Hua Chunying, spokeswoman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, said in an online statement, according to The Associated Press.
据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，中国外交部发言人华春莹在网上的声明中称，“日本只有切实正视和深刻反省过去那段侵略历史，同军国主义彻底划清界限，中日关系才可能实现健康稳定发展。”
It remains to be seen whether the Chinese reaction will be strong enough to derail recent diplomatic steps to ease tensions between the two nations, which are locked in disputes over history and territory. These steps include overtures by Mr. Abe to arrange a summit meeting with the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, who has so far refused to meet Mr. Abe.
目前，中日关系因为历史和领土问题陷入僵局。究竟中国的反应是否强烈到足以影响最近旨在减轻两国对立的外交举措的地步，还需进一步观察。作为这些外交努力的一环，安倍晋三提议与中国国家主席习近平举行峰会。迄今为之，习近平一直拒绝与安倍晋三会面。
Last week, the foreign ministers of Japan and China met on the sidelines of a regional security conference in Myanmar for the first time since Mr. Abe became prime minister. Local news media reports said the ministers discussed a new initiative by Mr. Abe to meet with Mr. Xi at an economic summit meeting to be held in November in Beijing.
上周，中日两国外长在缅甸举行的一次地区安全会议的边会上见面。这是安倍晋三担任首相以来的第一次。当地新闻媒体报道，两位外长讨论了安倍晋三的一项新提议，即希望能在11月于北京举行的经济峰会上与习近平会面。
The Japanese foreign minister, Fumio Kishida, also held talks in Myanmar with Yun Byung-se, his South Korean counterpart, to mend ties that have been similarly frayed by disputes over territory and history, particularly South Korean demands for new apologies to women forced to provide sex to Japanese soldiers during the war.
日本外相岸田文雄(Fumio Kishida)还在缅甸与韩国外长尹炳世(Yun Byung-se)举行了会谈，以修复两国同样因为领土和历史纠纷而受损的外交关系。两国争端的一个焦点是，韩国要求，日本重新向二战期间被迫为日本军人提供性服务的慰安妇道歉。
In a speech on Friday for the anniversary of Japan’s surrender, which South Korea celebrates as the end of Japanese colonial rule, President Park Geun-hye criticized Japanese politicians for taking actions that drive the two nations further apart.
周五，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)在庆祝日本投降并结束殖民统治的光复节发表演讲，对日本政界人士的一系列举动表示谴责，称这些举动只会让两国关系更加疏远。