WASHINGTON — A panel of outside advisers urged President Obama on Wednesday to impose major restrictions on the National Security Agency, arguing that in the past dozen years its powers had been enhanced at the expense of personal privacy.
华盛顿——一个由外部顾问组成的小组周三敦促奥巴马总统，对美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）做出重大限制。顾问小组称，NSA在过去十几年里力量的增强，造成个人隐私受到侵犯。
Specifically the panel of five intelligence and legal experts recommended that Mr. Obama restructure a program in which the N.S.A. systematically collects logs of all American phone calls — so-called metadata — and a small group of agency officials have the power to authorize the search of an individual’s telephone contacts. Instead, the panel said, the data should remain in the hands of telecommunications companies or a private consortium, and a court order should be necessary each time analysts want to access the information of any individual “for queries and data mining.”
这个由五名情报和法律专家组成的顾问小组对奥巴马提出的具体建议是，对NSA的一个项目进行重组。这个项目系统性地收集美国所有的电话呼叫记录，即所谓的“元数据”，并且一小群NSA官员有权授权搜索具体某个人的电话联系人。顾问小组称，元数据应当由电信公司或某个私有团体持有，每次分析人员想要“出于调查或数据挖掘目的”查阅任何人的信息之时，都需要法庭出具命令。
The experts briefed Mr. Obama on Wednesday on their 46 recommendations, and a senior administration official said Mr. Obama was “open to many” of the changes, though he has already rejected one that called for separate leaders for the N.S.A. and its Pentagon cousin, the United States Cyber Command.
专家们周三向奥巴马汇报了他们提出的46项建议，一位高级白宫官员表示，奥巴马对其中的许多变动“持开放态度”。不过他已经回绝了其中一项建议。那条建议主张，为NSA和国防部下属的兄弟机构网络战司令部(United States Cyber Command)任命不同的负责人。
If Mr. Obama adopts the majority of the recommendations, it would mark the first major restrictions on the unilateral powers that the N.S.A. has acquired since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. They would require the agency to seek far more specific approvals from the courts, far more oversight from the Congress, and specific presidential approval for spying on national leaders, especially allies. The agency would also have to give up one of its most potent weapons in cyberconflicts: The ability to insert “back doors” in American hardware or software, or purchase previously unknown flaws in software that it can use to conduct cyberattacks.
如果奥巴马能采纳多数的建议，就将是NSA自2001年9月11日的恐怖袭击发生以来获得的独断专行力量所受到的首次重大约束。这些建议要求NSA从法庭取得比从前具体得多的授权，并在远超从前的程度上接受国会监督，并且在监听外国领导人，尤其是盟友时，要得到总统的具体批准。NSA还必须放弃网络战中最有力的武器，不能再在美国硬件或软件中植入“后门”，也不能再购买尚未公布的软件漏洞，并将其用于开展网络攻击。
“We have identified a series of reforms that are designed to safeguard the privacy and dignity of American citizens, and to promote public trust, while also allowing the intelligence community to do what must be done to respond to genuine threats,” says the report, which Mr. Obama commissioned in August in response to the mounting furor over revelations by Edward J. Snowden, a former N.S.A. contractor, of the agency’s surveillance practices.
报告中说，“我们确认了一系列改革措施，用来守护美国公民的隐私权和尊严并提升公众的信任，同时也允许情报部门开展必须要做的工作，应对真实的威胁。”NSA前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)揭露该局监控措施的种种内情后掀起了轩然大波，奥巴马为了应对愈演愈烈的公愤，今年8月委托顾问小组出具报告。
It adds: “Free nations must protect themselves, and nations that protect themselves must remain free.”
报告中还说：“自由国家必须保护自己，但国家在保护自己时也必须保障自由。”
White House officials said they expected significant resistance to some of the report’s conclusions from the N.S.A. and other intelligence agencies, which have argued that imposing rules that could slow the search for terror suspects could pave the way for another attack. But those intelligence leaders were not present in the Situation Room on Wednesday when Mr. Obama met the authors of the report.
白宫官员表示，他们认为报告中得出的某些结论将会面临NSA和其他情报机构的巨大阻力。这些情报机构已经提出，实行可能会减缓恐怖嫌疑人搜索行动的规章，会为下一次恐怖袭击铺平道路。然而周三奥巴马与报告的作者在白宫局势研究室(Situation Room)会面时，那些情报机构的领导人并未出席。
The report’s authors made clear that they were weighing the N.S.A.’s surveillance requirements against other priorities like constitutional protections for privacy and economic considerations for American businesses. The report came just three days after a Federal judge in Washington ruled that the bulk collection of telephone data by the government was “almost Orwellian” and a day after Silicon Valley executives complained to Mr. Obama that the N.S.A. programs were undermining American competitiveness in offering cloud services or selling American-made hardware, which is now viewed as tainted.
报告的作者阐明，他们将NSA的监控需求与其他的重要议题进行了权衡，如宪法对隐私权的保护，以及美国企业的经济考虑。报告提交的三天前，华盛顿的一位联邦法官刚刚判决，政府大举收集电话数据的做法“几乎是奥威尔式的(Orwellian)”；报告提交的一天前，硅谷的企业高管向奥巴马抱怨，NSA的监控项目损害了美国提供云服务或销售美国制造的硬件产品时的竞争力，现在美国的这些产品和服务都被认为存在瑕疵。
The report was praised by privacy advocates in Congress and civil-liberties groups as a surprisingly aggressive call for reform.
国会中的隐私权倡导人士和公民自由团体，称赞这份报告是一则出人意料的激进改革呼吁。
Members of the advisory group said some of the recommendations were intended to provide greater public reassurances about privacy protections rather than to result in any wholesale dismantling the N.S.A.’s surveillance powers. Richard A. Clarke, a cyberexpert and former national security official under Presidents Clinton and George W. Bush, said the report would give “more reason for the skeptics in the public to believe their civil liberties are being protected.”
顾问小组的成员表示，某些建议的目的是让公众对隐私权的保护能够更放心，而不是彻底瓦解NSA的监控权力。曾在克林顿政府和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府担任国家安全官员的网络专家理查德·A·克拉克(Richard A. Clarke)表示，报告能让“公众当中持怀疑态度的人，有更多的理由相信他们的公民自由得到了保障”。
Other members included Michael J. Morell, a former deputy director of the C.I.A.; Cass Sunstein, a Harvard Law School professor who ran the office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Obama White House; Peter Swire, a privacy law specialist at of Georgia Institute of Technology; and Geoffrey R. Stone, a constitutional law specialist at the University of Chicago Law School, where Mr. Obama once taught.
顾问小组中的其他成员包括中情局前副局长迈克尔·J·莫雷尔(Michael J. Morell)；哈佛法学院(Harvard Law School)教授凯斯·桑斯坦(Cass Sunstein)，他曾在奥巴马政府领导情报和监管事务办公室(Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs)；乔治亚理工学院(Georgia Institute of Technology)隐私法专家彼得·史怀亚(Peter Swire)；以及芝加哥大学法学院(University of Chicago Law School)宪法专家杰弗里·R·斯通(Geoffrey R. Stone)，奥巴马一度在该学院任教。
Mr. Obama is expected to take the report to Hawaii on his vacation starting later this week and announce decisions when he returns in early January. Some of the report’s proposals could be ordered by Mr. Obama alone, while others would require legislation from Congress, including changes to how judges are appointed to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.
根据预期，奥巴马本周晚些时候去夏威夷度假时，将会带着这份报告，到1月初返回白宫时便会公布决定。报告中的一些提议奥巴马本人就能下令实施，而另一些则需要国会立法，包括调整为外国情报监视法庭(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court)任命法官的程序。
The court, which oversees national security surveillance inside the United States, has been criticized because it hears arguments only from the Justice Department without adversarial lawyers to raise opposing views, and because Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. has unilateral power to select its members. Echoing proposals already floated in congressional hearings and elsewhere, the advisory group backs the view that there should be a “public interest advocate to represent the interests of privacy and civil liberties” in classified arguments before the court. It also says that the power to select judges for the surveillance court should be distributed among all the Supreme Court justices.
这个法庭监管着美国境内的国家安全监控行动。但由于这个法庭只听取司法部的意见，并无辩护律师提出相反意见，而且最高法院(Supreme Court)首席大法官小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)有权独自挑选外国情报监视法庭的成员，所以这一法庭倍受诟病。顾问小组响应了已经在国会听证会和其他场合浮现的提议，他们认同，在外国情报监视法庭进行的不公开辩论中，应当有“人站在隐私权和公民自由的一方，主张公众权益”。顾问小组还表示，为监视法庭挑选法官的权力应当分配给所有最高法院的大法官。
The report recommended new privacy protections for disclosure of personal information about non-Americans among agencies or to the public. The change would extend to foreigners essentially the same protections that citizens have under the Privacy Act of 1974 — a way of assuring foreign countries that their own citizens, if targeted for surveillance, will enjoy at least some protections under American law.
报告建议，针对在情报机构内或面向公众披露非美国公民个人信息的行为，做出新的隐私保护。相关的调整将会把1974年《隐私法案》(Privacy Act)给予美国公民的保护，延伸到外国人身上。这样可以让其他国家确信，即使其公民成为监控的对象，美国法律至少会确保他们享有某种程度的保护。
It also said the United States should get out of the business of secretly buying or searching for flaws in common computer programs and using them for mounting cyberattacks. That technique, using what are called “zero-day” flaws, so named because they are used with zero days of warning that the flaw even exists, were critical to the cyberattacks that the United States and Israel launched on Iran in an effort to slow its nuclear program. The United States often pays handsomely for secret information about such flaws; the advisers said that the information should be turned over to software manufacturers to have the mistakes fixed, rather than exploited.
报告中还说，美国应当停止秘密购买常规电脑程序中的漏洞，或搜索这些漏洞，并借此发动网络攻击的做法。这种做法利用的是所谓的“零日”(zero-day)漏洞，之所以如此命名是因为发动攻击之前，根本不提前通知这种漏洞的存在，连一天的警告期都不给。这种手法在美国和以色列为了延缓伊朗核计划而发动的网络攻击中，起到了关键的作用。美国通常会慷慨解囊，购买关于这些漏洞的秘密信息，顾问们表示，这些信息应当交给软件开发商，让它们做出修改，而不是利用其发动攻击。
And when it came to spying on foreign leaders, the report urged that the issue be taken out the hands of the intelligence agencies, and put into the hands of policy makers who would need to evaluate risks to the diplomatic and economic relations with the targeted countries.
对于监控外国领导人的行为，报告敦促将此事宜从情报机关的职权范围，转移到政策制定者手中，他们需要评估这可能给美国和目标国外交、经贸关系带来的风险。