The country’s major news organizations, as surprised as anybody by Donald Trump’s ascension to the presidency, faced a question from their audiences on Wednesday that was laced with a sense of betrayal and anger: How did you get it so wrong?
周三，对唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)当选总统这件事的惊讶程度不亚于任何人的美国主要新闻机构，面临着愤怒读者带着一种被出卖的感觉提出的一个问题：你们怎么会错得如此离谱？
The question came in letters. (“To editors and writers of The NYT,” one reader wrote, “you were so wrong for so long. You misled your readers and were blinded by your own journalistic bigotry.”) It came in Facebook posts. (“You were in a bubble and weren’t paying attention to your fellow Americans,” filmmaker Michael Moore wrote in a post shared more than 100,000 times.) Most ominously, it came in the form of canceled subscriptions, something that will surely be monitored.
这个问题被用信件（“致纽约时报的编辑和作者：”一名读者写道，“在这么长时间里你们大错特错。你们误导读者，被你们自己的新闻偏执蒙蔽了双眼。”）和Facebook上的发帖（“你们置身于气泡中，不关注你们的美国同胞，”电影制作人迈克尔·摩尔[Michael Moore]在一篇转发超过10万次的帖子中写道）的形式提了出来。最糟糕的形式是取消订阅。这种方式肯定会被监测到的。
After projecting a relatively easy victory for Hillary Clinton with all the certainty of a calculus solution, news outlets like The New York Times, The Huffington Post and the major networks scrambled to provide candid answers.
凭借着像是微积分答案一般确定的预测表示希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)会取得相对轻松的胜利之后，《纽约时报》、《赫芬顿邮报》(The Huffington Post)和主要电视网等新闻机构手忙脚乱地尝试给出一个坦诚的答案。
With a new administration about to take shape in Washington, news executives tried to take stock of their mistakes and fix them on the fly, lest the fast-moving story leave them behind again.
在新一届政府即将在华盛顿组建成立的情况下，新闻机构的高管试图反省并迅速纠正自己的错误，以免再次落后于快速发展的形势。
Data journalism in particular, including websites like The Times’ Upshot and The Huffington Post’s Pollster, was under fire after guiding audiences — often through visually appealing speedometer-type graphics that forecast the probability of winning — to the conclusion that Clinton would prevail in electoral votes. On Tuesday, the meters went haywire. The Times’ Upshot graphic, for instance, moved from a high probability favoring Clinton to a huge advantage for Trump, with readers left to guess what the dancing needle really signified.
因为引导读者——通常是通过预测获胜可能性的图形，它们看上去像速度计似的，颇具视觉吸引力——得出了克林顿会获得更多选举人票的结论，数据新闻尤其遭到了读者的炮轰，包括时报的“结语”专栏(Upshot)和《赫芬顿邮报》的“民调专家”(Pollster)等网站。周二当天，各种图表乱了套。比如，时报“结语”专栏的图从预测克林顿获胜几率高，变成了显示特朗普优势巨大，使得读者猜测不断跳动的指针究竟预示着什么。
Though several national polls came close to capturing the final result in the popular vote — which Clinton appears likely to win when the counting is done — all the number-crunching of state polls pointed to resounding success for Clinton in the Electoral College.
尽管几项全国性民调接近于捕捉到了普选票数的最终结果——选票清点工作结束时，克林顿似乎有可能占到上风——但在各州进行的民调的所有数字运算都指向了同一个结果：克林顿将在选举人团中大获全胜。
The news media’s self-reflection on Wednesday brought to mind the awkward position Fox News found itself in four years ago, when it was criticized for creating an insular information bubble that led some viewers to believe Mitt Romney would defeat President Barack Obama.
新闻媒体周三的自我反省，让人想起了Fox新闻频道(Fox News)四年前的尴尬处境。当时，因为制造了一个与世隔绝的信息气泡，引导一些观众认为米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)会打败贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统，Fox新闻频道备受指责。
That raised questions about Fox News’ objectivity. Now it is mainstream news outlets, which Fox News so often portrays as liberally biased, that are facing a wave of skepticism. In some cases, the questions come from people at Fox News.
当时，此事引发了对Fox新闻频道客观性的质疑。现在面临质疑浪潮的，则是常被Fox新闻频道描述成存在严重自由派偏见的主流新闻机构。这次，一些质疑甚至直接来自Fox新闻频道的员工。
“A lot of media outlets made a decision sometime after the convention that Donald Trump was beyond the pale and they no longer had to observe the normal rules of journalism and objectivity,” Chris Wallace, a Fox News anchor, said in an interview on Tuesday. “I thought The New York Times was one of the worst offenders,” but, he added, “we were all guilty — myself included — of kind of writing him off.”
“共和党大会之后，很多媒体机构一致认为唐纳德·特朗普突破了底线，便做出决定，它们不用再遵守新闻业的一般规则和客观性，”Fox新闻频道的主持人克里斯·华莱士(Chris Wallace)周二接受采访时说。“我认为《纽约时报》是罪魁祸首之一，”但他接着说，“我们都犯了没把他放在眼里的错，包括我自己。”
The weeks of soul-searching that are bound to follow were well underway on Wednesday.
深刻反省必然是接下来数周的主题。周三当天，这种反省就已经全面开始了。
“Whenever the news media gets surprised by a big story, there follows a round of questioning,” Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, wrote in a note to his staff. “What could we have done better? How did we and other news organizations underestimate the support for such an unusual, even divisive candidate?”
“不管什么时候，只要新闻媒体对重大事件感到猝不及防，接下来都会出现一轮质疑，”时报执行主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)在给员工的一封信中写道。“哪些方面我们本可以做得更好？我们和其他新闻机构是怎么低估这样一位与众不同，甚至有争议的候选人所得到的支持的？”
Baquet praised his political team and other Times journalists for “agility and creativity,” citing stories about Trump’s taxes and Clinton’s record in Libya.
巴奎以报道特朗普的纳税问题和克林顿在利比亚的作为的报道为例，称赞他领导的政治新闻团队和其他时报记者“思维敏捷并且富有创造性”。
But in an interview in his office, he said, “If I have a mea culpa for journalists and journalism, it’s that we’ve got to do a much better job of being on the road, out in the country, talking to different kinds of people than the people we talk to — especially if you happen to be a New York-based news organization — and remind ourselves that New York is not the real world.”
但在其办公室接受采访时，巴奎说，“如果要我说记者和新闻界的错误的话，那就是我们必须走出去，去到全国各地，和那些与我们平素的采访对象不一样的人交流，并在这些方面作出大幅改善。如果你恰好是设在纽约的新闻机构的话，则尤其如此，要去提醒自己，纽约不是真实的世界。”
The NBC anchor Tom Brokaw echoed that sentiment, lamenting that for all its efforts at advancing diversity, the news media was still “pretty confined” to “the Eastern Seaboard.”
NBC主持人汤姆·布罗考(Tom Brokaw)呼应了这一观点，感叹新闻媒体尽管为促进多样性做出了各种努力，但依然“在很大程度上局限于东海岸”。
The sense of failure was not universal, with some news executives saying that journalists by and large did their job in presenting the news and leaving it to voters to decide.
并不是所有人都有这种挫败感。一些新闻机构的高管称，总的来说记者完成了呈现新闻，把决定权留给选民的工作。
“You can’t say that this campaign was undercovered or that this result is because of some failure to report on these candidates,” said David Rhodes, the president of CBS News. “I think it’s presumptuous of anybody — media or anybody else — to suggest that the reason for the result is some information failure.”
“你不能说这次选举没有得到充分地报道，或是有这样的结果是因为这些候选人的报道上出了问题，”CBS新闻频道(CBS News)总裁戴维·罗兹(David Rhodes)说。“我认为，任何人——媒体或其他任何人——认为出现这种结果的原因是某种信息失败，都很冒失。”
That said, there was a widespread feeling that the coastal and Beltway sensibilities of many mainstream reporters left them unable to relate to the sense of anger and resentment of the core Trump voter, which led them to miss Trump’s groundswell of support, some of which appeared to have been lost by polling, too.
即便如此，一种普遍的感觉是，很多主流记者的沿海和首都环线情结，让他们无法和特朗普阵营中核心选民的愤怒感和怨恨产生共鸣，致使他们忽略了特朗普获得的支持越来越多。民调似乎也忽略了部分支持者。
And it left them blind to the fact that the political rules to which they adhered no longer seemed to apply.
这导致他们没有跟上一个事实，即他们遵守的政治规则似乎不再适用。
Journalists are also operating in a new media world — of Twitter, Facebook and the alt-right players who operate on the platforms — in which they are no longer the center of gravity.
记者还是在一个新的媒体世界中运作——它包括Twitter、Facebook以及在这些平台上运作的“另类右翼”(alt-right)玩家们——记者不再是重心。
“I think the larger point, and the more profound dilemma, is this new media landscape,” said David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker.
“我认为，更重要的问题、更深刻的困境是这个新的媒体环境，”《纽约客》(The New Yorker)主编戴维·雷姆尼克(David Remnick)说。
Data journalism outlets like The Upshot have provided news organizations with compelling content offering a different presentation of journalism that shows readers the great breadth of data that can illuminate public opinion. It also has the benefit of inducing them to click early and often.
“结语”专栏等数据新闻站点为新闻机构提供了引人注目的内容和不同的新闻展示方式，为读者提供了能够启发舆论的广泛数据。它还具有吸引读者尽早并经常点击的好处。
On The Times’ home page, a standing Upshot feature regularly told readers that Clinton was the odds-on favorite to win the Electoral College — at times on the order of more than 90 percent — when there were stand-alone head-to-head national polls that showed a harder-fought race and, in some cases, even a lead for Trump.
在时报的首页上，“结语”专栏的一个常设功能经常告诉读者，克林顿有很大希望赢得选举团投票——有时差不多达到逾90％的胜率——与此同时，独立的针锋相对的全国民调显示，这是一场硬仗，有时甚至显示，特朗普领先。
Amanda Cox, the editor of The Upshot, said the model clearly indicated that Clinton was the favorite based on polling data from several important states, including Wisconsin and Michigan.
“结语”专栏的编辑阿曼达·考克斯(Amanda Cox)称，该模型基于威斯康星州和密歇根州等几个重要州的民调数据，清楚地表明，克林顿更受青睐。
Cox said the mistake lay elsewhere; there was a “failure of communication,” she said, in telling readers what the numbers actually meant — that probabilities are just that, probabilities, not guarantees.
考克斯称，错在别的方面。她说，“沟通有问题”，没有告诉读者，那些数字实际上只是几率，不是保证。
At Nate Silver’s data website, FiveThirtyEight, he had predicted that Clinton would win with more than 300 electoral votes, and gave her a 71 percent chance of winning with the site’s polls-only prediction model. He also emphasized that Trump’s chances were real, with analysis pieces predicting that Trump could win the presidency while losing the popular vote.
纳特·西尔弗(Nate Silver)曾在自己的数据网站FiveThirtyEight上预测，克林顿将以300多张选举人票获胜，并根据该网站仅依据民调的模型，预测她的胜率为71％。他也曾强调，特朗普获胜的可能性真实存在，还发布分析文章，预测特朗普可能在输掉普选票的情况下赢得大选。
“We explained over and over again how much uncertainty there was in this year’s race,” said David Firestone, managing editor of FiveThirtyEight. “We were telling people up to the very end, ‘This is not a sure thing.'”
“我们一遍又一遍解释，今年的大选有许多不确定性，”FiveThirtyEight的执行主编戴维·费尔斯通(David Firestone)说，“直到最后，我们还在对人们说：‘这不一定’”。