WASHINGTON — In their first major test of governing this year, Republicans stumbled, faltered — and nearly shut down the Department of Homeland Security.
华盛顿——在今年的首个执政能力重大考验中，共和党人跌跌撞撞，摇摇欲坠，差点导致国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)停摆。
And that vote may have been the easy one.
而那次投票可能还算是比较容易的。
In April, physicians who treat Medicare patients face a drastic cut in pay. In May, the Highway Trust Fund runs dry. In June, the charter for the federal Export-Import Bank ceases to exist. Then in October, across-the-board spending cuts return, the government runs out of money — and the Treasury bumps up against its borrowing limit.
今年4月，为享有联邦医疗保险(Medicare)的病人提供治疗服务的医生，将面临收入大幅减少的问题。5月，公路信托基金(Highway Trust Fund)将枯竭。联邦进出口银行(Export-Import Bank)于6月特许期满。然后是10月，全盘开支削减举措将再次实施，政府将耗尽经费，财政部(Treasury)将达到借款上限。
All will require congressional action, and while many of these measures used to be pushed through in an almost unthinking bipartisan ritual, there is no such thing as simple in Congress anymore.
这些问题都需要国会采取行动解决，虽然两党代表过去常常不假思索地通过其中很多举措，但在国会中，再也不会有这么简单的事情了。
“We really don't have 218 votes to determine a bathroom break over here on our side,” said Rep. Charlie Dent, R-Pa. “So how are we going to get 218 votes on transportation, or trade, or whatever the issue? We might as well face the political reality of our circumstances and then act accordingly.”
“连在这里上洗手间的问题，我们都没办法弄到我方所需的218票，”宾夕法尼亚州共和党众议员查利·登特(Charlie Dent)说。“如何能在交通运输、贸易，或者无论什么问题上获得218票呢？我们或许还不如面对我们的政治现状，然后采取相应的行动。”
The Republican leadership team, he added, “has not done a good job of managing expectations. There are too many folks with unrealistic expectations.”
他还表示，共和党领导团队“没有做好管理预期的工作，太多人抱有不切实际的期望”。
Republicans emphatically regained power with the midterm election, but those victories also masked pronounced divisions within the party. That friction was on display during the fight to fund Homeland Security, with more conservative members forcing House Speaker John A. Boehner into a strategy in which he had to win passage with Democratic votes.
共和党人凭借中期选举明确地夺回了权力，但这些胜利也掩盖了共和党内部的显著分歧。在有关国土安全部拨款问题的争执中，这种分歧分外明显，更多的保守派成员迫使众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)采取策略，不得不去争取民主党的投票以通过拨款法案。
Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the majority leader, is six votes short of overcoming a Democratic filibuster. And Boehner is struggling to maintain his already tenuous grip on his caucus, in which roughly three dozen members consistently refuse to support almost any leadership plan.
由于缺少六票，肯塔基州共和党参议员、多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)没能阻止民主党使用拖延战术。博纳正在艰难地维持自己对党团已经非常微弱的控制力，有30几名议员一贯拒绝支持领导层的几乎所有计划。
The Republican turmoil has, in turn, empowered congressional Democrats, who found that by standing unified, they can wield significant power from the minority, something Republicans in the Senate had done to great effect in the last Congress.
共和党的混乱状态，为国会的民主党人增添了力量，他们发现通过统一意见，他们能够行使少数党的重要权力，在上一届国会中，参议院的共和党人曾这样做过，取得了良好效果。