The pundit consensus seems to be that Republicans lost in the just-concluded budget deal. Overall spending will be a bit higher than the level mandated by the sequester, the straitjacket imposed back in 2011. Meanwhile, Democrats avoided making any concessions on Social Security or Medicare. Call this one for Team D, I guess.
看来行家的共识是共和党在刚刚完成的预算协议中成了输家。总体支出会比2011年制定的自动减赤强制约束标准略高一些。与此同时，民主党人也避免了在社会安全福利(Social Security)和联邦医疗保险(Medicare)上做出任何让步。我想这样可以算民主党得了一分吧。
But if Republicans arguably lost this round, the unemployed lost even more: Extended benefits weren’t renewed, so 1.3 million workers will be cut off at the end of this month, and many more will see their benefits run out in the months that follow. And if you take a longer perspective — if you look at what has happened since Republicans took control of the House of Representatives in 2010 — what you see is a triumph of anti-government ideology that has had enormously destructive effects on American workers.
然而，如果可以说这一轮共和党输了，那么失业者输得更惨：失业救济不会延期，130万工人将在本月底失去经济来源，接下来几个月还会有更多的人看到他们的救济金耗尽。如果你从一个纵深的视角来看——如果你看看自共和党在2010年控制众议院以来的状况——你会看到一场反政府意识形态的胜利，而这已经对美国劳动者构成了毁灭性的影响。
First, some facts about government spending.
首先，说一些关于政府支出的事实。
One of the truly remarkable things about American political discourse at the end of 2013 is the fixed conviction among many conservatives that the Obama era has been one of enormous growth in government. Where do they think this surge in government spending has taken place? Well, it’s true that one major new program — the Affordable Care Act — is going into effect. But it’s not nearly as big as people imagine. Once Obamacare is fully implemented, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that it will add only about 3 percent to overall federal spending. And, if you ask people ranting about runaway government what other programs they’re talking about, you draw a blank.
2013年末的美国政治辩论中，有一件事情格外值得注意，那就是许多保守派人士一口咬定在奥巴马时代，政府势力有惊人的增强。他们以为这种政府支出激增是从哪里来的？的确是有一个大型的新项目即将生效，也就是《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)。但是它根本没有人们想象的那么大。一旦奥巴马医保全面实施，国会预算办公室(Congressional Budget Office)估计将给联邦总支出带来的增长仅为约3%。你要去问那些咆哮着说失控政府的人，他们还能举出别的项目来吗，你得不到答案的。
Meanwhile, the actual numbers show that over the past three years we’ve been living through an era of unprecedented government downsizing. Government employment is down sharply; so is total government spending (including state and local governments) adjusted for inflation, which has fallen almost 3 percent since 2010 and around 5 percent per capita.
与此同时，确凿的数据显示过去三年里我们正经历一个政府精简的时代，幅度是空前的；将通胀因素考虑在内，政府总支出（包括州和地方政府）自2010年来已经下降了将近3%，人均降幅约5%。
And when I say unprecedented, I mean just that. We haven’t seen anything like the recent government cutbacks since the 1950s, and probably since the demobilization that followed World War II.
我说空前不是随口说的。自从20世纪50年代以来，我们没见过像这样的政府削减，可能自二战后部队复员以来都不曾有过。
What has been cut? It’s a complex picture, but the most obvious cuts have been in education, infrastructure, research, and conservation. While the Recovery Act (the Obama stimulus) was in effect, the federal government provided significant aid to state and local education. Then the aid went away, and local governments began letting go of hundreds of thousands of teachers.
减了哪里？情况是很复杂的，但最明显的削减是在教育、基础设施、研究和保护上。《复苏法》(Recovery Act，奥巴马的刺激政策)实施的时候，联邦政府向州和地方的教育系统提供了大量援助。然后援助停止了，地方政府开始解雇成千上万的教师。
Meanwhile, public investment fell sharply — so sharply that many observers refer to it as a “collapse” — as state and local governments canceled transportation projects and deferred maintenance. Researchers, like those at the National Institutes of Health, also took large cuts. And there was a major cut in spending on land and water conservation.
与此同时，公共投资在大幅下降——降幅大到很多观察者称之为“暴跌”——州和地方政府取消了交通工程项目，推迟了道路养护。类似国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)这些机构的研究人员也遭到重创。水土保护方面的支出削减幅度极大。
There are three things you need to know about these harsh cuts.
对于这些残酷的削减，有三件事情要搞明白。
First, they were unnecessary. The Washington establishment may have hyperventilated about debt and deficits, but markets have never shown any concern at all about U.S. creditworthiness. In fact, borrowing costs have stayed at near-record lows throughout.
首先，它们是不必要的。华盛顿可能在债务和赤字的事情上大呼小叫，但市场对美国的信用度从来没表现出半点担忧。事实上借贷成本一直保持在接近历史最低的水平。
Second, the cuts did huge short-term economic damage. Small-government advocates like to claim that reducing government spending encourages private spending — and when the economy is booming, they have a point. The recent cuts, however, took place at the worst possible moment, the aftermath of a financial crisis. Families were struggling to cope with the debt they had run up during the housing bubble; businesses were reluctant to invest given the weakness of consumer demand. Under these conditions, government cutbacks simply swelled the ranks of the unemployed — and as family incomes fell, so did consumer spending, compounding the damage.
其次，削减造成了严重的短期经济破坏。小政府倡导者总爱说减少政府支出能鼓励私人支出——在经济繁荣的时候，他们这么说可以。然而近年的削减是在一个糟的不能再糟的时间里进行的。当时金融危机留下了一片废墟，家庭艰难地应对着房产泡沫时欠下的债务；由于消费需求不足，商家也不愿意投资。在这样的情况下，政府削减根本就是在推高失业率——随着家庭收入下降，消费支出也就下降了，进一步加大破坏力。
The result was to deepen and prolong America’s jobs crisis. Those cuts in government spending are the main reason we still have high unemployment, more than five years after Lehman Brothers fell.
这种结果加剧、延长了美国的就业危机。政府支出的这些削减，是我们在雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)倒闭五年多后失业率仍这么高的原因。
Finally, if you look at my list of major areas that were cut, you’ll notice that they mainly involve investing in the future. So we aren’t just looking at short-term harm, we’re also looking at a long-term degradation of our prospects, reinforced by the corrosive effects of sustained high unemployment.
最后，如果你看看我列出的削减重灾区，你会意识到它们主要是与长远投资有关的。所以我们不只是面临短期的伤害，我们的长远预期也在恶化，在居高不下的失业率侵蚀下，这种糟糕的前景显得愈发真切。
So, about that budget deal: yes, it was a small victory for Democrats. It was also, possibly, a small step toward political sanity, with some Republicans rejecting, provisionally, the notion that a party controlling neither the White House nor the Senate can nonetheless get whatever it wants through extortion.
那么，再说预算协议：是的，这是民主党的一次小胜。可能还是向着恢复政治理智迈出了一小步，因为一部分共和党人暂时认识到，一个对白宫和参议院都没有控制力的政党是不能够通过敲诈勒索达到自己的目的的。
But the larger picture is one of years of deeply destructive policy, imposing gratuitous suffering on working Americans. And this deal didn’t do much to change that picture.
但是从大局来看，这是一个持续数年的、造成严重破坏的政策，将毫无必要的苦难强加在努力工作的美国人身上。而此次的协议，没有给这种大局带来太多改变。