The “God particle” became the prize particle on Tuesday.
本周二，“上帝粒子”变成了桂冠粒子。
Two theoretical physicists who suggested that an invisible ocean of energy suffusing space is responsible for the mass and diversity of the particles in the universe won the Nobel Prize in Physics on Tuesday morning. They are Peter W. Higgs, 84, of the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, and François Englert, 80, of the Université Libre de Bruxelles in Belgium.
当天早上，两位理论物理学家获得了诺贝尔物理学奖，一位是84岁的彼得·H·希格斯(Peter W. Higgs)，来自苏格兰爱丁堡大学(University of Edinburgh)，另一位是80岁的弗朗索瓦·恩格勒(François Englert)，来自比利时法语布鲁塞尔自由大学(Université Libre de Bruxelles)。 他们提出，宇宙中粒子的质量和多样性，来自于一种如隐形的海洋一般充满着整个空间的能量。
The theory, elucidated in 1964, sent physicists on a generation-long search for a telltale particle known as the Higgs boson, popularly known (though not among physicists) as the God particle. The chase culminated last year with the discovery of this particle, which confers mass on other particles, at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN, in Switzerland. Dr. Higgs and Dr. Englert will split a prize of $1.2 million, to be awarded in Stockholm on Dec. 10.
他们在1964年发表的理论，令众物理学家花了整整一代人的时间寻觅“希格斯玻色子”(Higgs boson)，也就是俗称的“上帝粒子”（虽然物理学家中不这么称呼它）。这种粒子是揭示重要宇宙秘密的关键。寻觅它的活动在去年达到高潮：在瑞士，欧洲核子研究中心(CERN)使用大型强子对撞机发现了这种赋予其他粒子质量的粒子。今年的诺贝尔奖将于12月10日在斯德哥尔摩颁发，希格斯和恩格勒将分享总共120万美元（约合730万元人民币）的奖金。 
“You may imagine that this is not unpleasant,” Dr. Englert said in an early morning news conference.
“你可以想像，这不会是一个让人不快的事，”恩格勒在清晨举行的一个新闻发布会上说。 
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences had not been able to contact Dr. Higgs, who had vowed he would not be available Tuesday. A friend and fellow physicist, Alan Walker, said in a phone interview on Tuesday morning that Dr. Higgs, who does not use a cellphone or a computer, had gone off by himself for a few days without saying where, and that he would return Friday.
瑞典皇家科学院(Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences)一直没能联系上希格斯，他之前曾说自己周二没有空。他的一位朋友，同为物理学家的艾伦·沃克(Alan Walker)在周二早上接受电话采访时说，希格斯不用手机和电脑，已经独自离去好几天，他没有说去哪里，但是会在本周五返回。 
Dr. Higgs, he said, is a modest man who likes his own company and the ability to come and go without a fuss. Even before the announcement, he said, one journalist had invaded Dr. Higgs’s building looking for an interview. “He was sent away with a flea in his ear,” Dr. Walker said.
沃克说，希格斯为人谦虚，喜欢不受束缚地独来独往。他说，在获奖者名单公布之前，就有一名记者闯入希格斯所在的建筑物，希望采访他。“希格斯怒气冲冲地把他赶走了。”沃克说。
In a statement released later by the University of Edinburgh, Dr. Higgs pronounced himself “overwhelmed,” saying, “I hope this recognition of fundamental science will help raise awareness of the value of blue-sky research.”
在爱丁堡大学晚些时候发布的声明中，希格斯称自己“喜不自胜”，他说，“我希望这次对基础科学的褒奖，将有助于提高人们对‘蓝天研究’(blue-sky research)的认知。” 
Fabiola Gianotti, who led one of the CERN teams, called the prize “a great emotion and a great satisfaction,” adding that it was nice that the experiments were cited in the award. “The young physicists are superexcited.”
法比奥拉·吉亚诺蒂领导了(Fabiola Gianotti)CERN的一个团队，她说这两位物理学家获奖“令人十分激动和满意”，并说，该奖项还提到了他们的试验，非常好。“年轻的物理学家们都超激动。” 
The Higgs was the last missing ingredient of the Standard Model, a suite of equations that has ruled particle physics for the last-half century, explaining everything from the smell of a rose to the ping when your computer boots up. According to this model, the universe brims with energy that acts like a cosmic molasses, imbuing the particles that move through it with mass, the way a bill moving through Congress attracts riders and amendments, becoming more and more ponderous and controversial.
希格斯粒子是“标准模型”(Standard Model)缺失的最后一个部分，该模型是近半个世纪来主导粒子物理学的一套等式，解释了从玫瑰香味到电脑启动响声的万事万物。根据这个模型，宇宙充满了能量，这能量就像是一种遍布宇宙的蜜糖，让穿行其中的粒子获得了质量，好比是送到国会的提案，会引来附加条款和修订，因而变得越来越沉重，越来越富有争议。 
Without the Higgs field, many elementary particles, like electrons, would be massless and would zip around at the speed of light. There would be no atoms and no us.
如果没有希格斯场(Higgs field)，很多基本粒子，比如电子，就不会有质量，而且还会以光速四处窜动。不会有原子，也不会有我们。 
For scientists, the discovery of the Higgs (as physicists call it) affirmed the view of a cosmos ruled by laws of almost diamond-like elegance and simplicity, but in which everything interesting — like us — is a result of lapses or flaws in that elegance. That is the view that emerged in a period of feverish and tangled progress after World War II, in which the world’s physicists turned their energies from war to looking under the hood of nature, using the tools of quantum field theory.
对于科学家来说，发现希格斯粒子（物理学家如此称呼它）证实了这样的观点：宇宙遵循着几乎如钻石般优雅和简洁的法则，但其中一切有趣的东西——比如我们——是那种优雅出现失误或缺陷的结果。这种观点出现于二战结束之后，一段狂热而困惑的突飞猛进时期，当时全球的物理学家们把精力从战争上移开，放到了用量子场论工具探查自然的秘密上。 
At the heart of this quest was an ancient idea, the concept of symmetry, and how it was present in the foundations of physics but hidden in the world as we experience it. In art and nature, something is symmetrical if it looks the same when you move it one way or another, like a snowflake rotated 60 degrees; in science and math, a symmetry is something that does not change when you transform the system, like the length of an arrow when you turn it around or shoot it.
这场探索的核心是古老的“对称”概念，以及对称为何能呈现在物理学基础中，却在我们所经验的世界中潜迹藏行。在艺术和自然中，对称是指：当你以某种方式移动某个东西的时候，如果它看起来没有差别，那它就是对称的，比如你把雪花旋转60度，它看起来没有差别。而在科学和数学中，对称是指：当你改变系统的时候，某个东西不会变化，比如当你把一支箭倒过来或射出它的时候，箭的长度是不变的。 
In 1954, the theorists Chen Ning Yang and Robert L. Mills at the Brookhaven National Laboratory concluded that all fundamental forces were the result of nature’s trying to maintain symmetries — for example, the conservation of electric charge in the case of electromagnetism, or the conservation of momentum and energy in the case of Einstein’s gravity.
1954年，美国布鲁克海文国家实验室(Brookhaven National Laboratory)的理论物理学家杨振宁和罗伯特·L·米尔斯 (Robert L. Mills)得出结论，所有的基本力都是自然试图保持对称的结果——例如电磁学中的电荷守恒，或爱因斯坦引力理论中的动量和能量守恒。 
By then, however, two more forces of nature had been added to the roster: the so-called weak nuclear force, responsible for some types of radioactive decay, and the strong force, which holds atomic nuclei together. In quantum field theory, forces are transmitted by bundles of energy called bosons. By quantum rules, the mass of a boson is related to the range of the force: the more massive the boson, the shorter its reach.
但在那时，花名册上已经又增加了另外两种自然力：所谓的“弱核力”，即导致某些类型的放射性衰变的力量；以及“强核力”，即把原子核束缚在一起的力量。在量子场论中，力是通过称为玻色子的能量束传递的。根据量子规则，玻色子的质量跟这种力的作用距离有关：玻色子的质量越大，它的作用距离就越短。
When the physicist Sheldon Glashow, now of Boston University, wrote down a theory in 1961 that explained the weak force and electromagnetism as manifestations of a single “electroweak” force, the math indicated that the particles that transmitted the nuclear part of that force should be massless, like the photons that transmit light and can spread across the universe. But the nuclear forces barely reach across an atomic nucleus, suggesting that their carriers should be among the most massive of elementary particles. How did the carriers of the weak force become so massive while their brothers the photons remained free and easy?
目前在波士顿大学(Boston University)的物理学家谢尔顿·格拉肖(Sheldon Glashow)于1961年提出了一种理论，解释弱力和电磁力均为统一的“电弱”力的体现。其中的数学计算表明，传递这种核力的粒子应当没有质量，正如传递光线并能弥散在整个宇宙中的光子一样。但是，核力几乎不能作用于原子核之外，表明传递这种力的应当属于质量最大的基本粒子之列。怎么可能传递弱力的粒子质量如此之大，而与之类似的光子却能自由而轻盈呢？
It was Yoichiro Nambu of the University of Chicago, who would win a Nobel in 2008, who suggested that the fault might not lie in the laws of physics but in how those laws play out in the real world. By a process called symmetry breaking, a situation that started out balanced can wind up unbalanced.
芝加哥大学的南部阳一郎(Yoichiro Nambu)指出，有缺陷的或许不是物理定律，而是这些定律如何在现实世界中实现。通过一种被称为“对称性破缺”(symmetry breaking)的过程，一开始平衡的局面最后可能变为不平衡。他本人于2008年赢得了诺贝尔奖。
Imagine, for example, a pencil standing on its tip; it will eventually fall over and point only one way out of many possibilities. The mass of the boson can be thought of as the energy released when the pencil falls.
比方说，想象一支笔尖朝下树立的铅笔；它最终会倒下，笔尖朝着某个特定方向，而这个方向本有无数种可能性。玻色子的质量就好比是铅笔倒下时释放的能量。
In 1964, three papers by the different physicists showed how this could work by envisioning a kind of cosmic molasses filling space. Particles trying to go through it would acquire mass the way a celebrity attracts an entourage at a cocktail party: the bigger the name, the bigger the entourage.
1964年，三组物理学家分别发表论文，通过假设某种填充空间的“宇宙蜜糖”来阐述这一原理。试图穿越它的粒子会获得质量，方式类似名人在鸡尾酒会上吸引追随者：名气越响，追随者越多。
The first to publish this idea were Dr. Englert and his colleague Robert Brout, who died in 2011.
最先发表这种理论的是恩格勒及其同事罗伯特·布绕特(Robert Brout)，后者于2011年过世。
While they were working on their paper, Dr. Higgs, a young theorist born in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, England, was working on his own version of the theory.
他们在做这篇论文的时候，希格斯也在酝酿关于该理论自己的构想。这名年轻的理论物理学家出生于英格兰泰恩河畔的纽卡斯尔。
His paper was rejected by the journal Physics Letters, which was published at CERN, as having no relevance to physics. So he rewrote it and sent it to a rival journal, Physical Review Letters. Along the way he added a paragraph at the end, noting that the theory predicted a new particle, a spinless creature of indeterminate mass, which would become famous as the Higgs boson.
CERN出版的《物理快报》(Physics Letters)拒绝发表他的论文，理由是与物理学无关。于是，他进行了改写，并发给了同类期刊《物理评论快报》(Physical Review Letters)。这一过程中，他在文末加上了一段，指出这一理论预测了一种新粒子，无自旋、质量不明。这就是后来闻名的希格斯玻色子。
That paper was accepted with the proviso that he mention Dr. Englert’s and Dr. Brout’s paper, which had beaten him into print by seven weeks.
这篇文章被接受的前提是，希格斯要提及7周前问世的恩格勒和布绕特的论文。
The Higgs boson became a big deal after Steven Weinberg made it the linchpin in a 1967 paper that unified the electromagnetic and weak forces along the lines proposed by Dr. Glashow earlier, earning himself a share of the 1979 Nobel Prize.
1967年，斯蒂文·温伯格(Steven Weinberg)发表了一篇论文，把希格斯玻色子作为沿着格拉肖的思路，将电磁力与弱力统一起来的关键，从而使其变得举足轻重。温伯格本人也在1979年分享了诺贝尔物理学奖。
Along the way, the Higgs boson achieved a presence in pop culture rare in abstract physics. To the eternal dismay of his colleagues, Leon Lederman, the former director of Fermilab, called it the “God particle” in his book of the same name, written with Dick Teresi. (He later said that he had wanted to call it the “goddamn particle.”) Journalists and the news media could not resist the nickname, however, and many particle physicists grudgingly admitted that the name had brought a dose of drama and public excitement to a field almost breathtakingly austere and abstract.
渐渐地，希格斯玻色子也在流行文化中崭露头角，成为理论物理学中的特例。让同事们感到错愕不已的是，曾任费米实验室(Fermilab)主任的利昂·莱德曼(Leon Lederman)在与迪克·泰雷西(Dick Teresi)合写的书中将其称为“上帝粒子”(God particle)，而这也成为了书名。（他后来解释，自己本来希望称其为“神谴粒子”。）新闻媒体和记者们无法抗拒这样的绰号，许多粒子物理学家也很不情愿地承认，这个名字给他们这个异常晦涩艰深的领域，带来了一丝刺激及公众的热情。
The July 4 announcement last year ended that tension. That day was also the first time that Dr. Higgs and Dr. Englert had ever met. Indeed, the newly discovered boson so far fits the theoretical predictions so well that physicists are a little dismayed. They were hoping for a surprise or two that would tell them how to improve on the Standard Model.
去年7月4日宣布的发现给这种紧张局面划上了句号。当天也是希格斯博士与恩格勒博士首次见面，实际上，新发现的玻色子迄今为止与理论预测完美吻合，以致于物理学家们都有点失望。他们原本希望能出现几处意外，能够告诉他们如何改进标准模型。
The award on Tuesday sets the stage for the Swedish academy to figure out someday how to recognize the 10,000 scientists who built the Large Hadron Collider and sifted 2,000 trillion subatomic fireballs for a few dozen traces of the precious God-like particle.
本周二揭晓的物理奖也为瑞典皇家科学院有朝一日表彰1万名实验科学家的工作奠定了基础。这些科学家打造了大型强子对撞机，在对撞产生的2000万亿个亚原子火球中仔细筛查上帝般的粒子出现的几十次宝贵踪影。
“For the experimentalists,” said Maria Spiropulu, a member of one of the CERN teams that tracked the Higgs particle down, “we are kind of used to being excluded from the Nobel.”
追踪希格斯粒子的CERN团队成员玛丽亚·斯皮罗普卢(Maria Spiropulu)说，“作为实验物理学家，我们已经多少习惯了被排除在诺贝尔奖之外。”