You might want to sit down for this. Or stand up. Better yet, do both.
你可以坐下来使用这种桌子，想站着用也没问题。要不，两种姿势你轮番上阵。
A new batch of so-called smart desks can monitor your movements, track your calories and even nudge you to stand up at various intervals throughout the day without interruption or loss of concentration.
新一批的“智能办公桌”可以监测你的动作，跟踪热量消耗，甚至，它可以在一天里以不同的间隔时间催促你站起来，却完全不会打扰或影响你专心工作。
Over the past three years, I have tested nearly a dozen of these desks, from the cheapest, build-it-yourself model for less than $100 to an exquisitely designed luxury desk that offers a Zen-like sit-stand experience for a little more than $4,000. I’ve used desks with smart screens, desks that adjust with the wave of a hand and even desks that include a treadmill (something I could never get used to, but more on that later).
在过去的三年里，我对十几台这样的书桌进行了测试，其中最便宜的DIY款售价还不到100美元，最豪华的要卖4000美元出头，它设计精美，可提供禅修般的坐立体验。我使用过带智能屏幕的书桌、与手部摆动相协调的书桌，甚至还有自带跑步机的书桌（这东西我一直用不惯，稍后我会详述）。
The reason to buy a smart desk is because you, like most Americans, discover you are sitting your life away. Sitting for more than three hours a day can shave our life expectancy by two years — even if we exercise regularly.
大多数美国人购买智能办公桌是因为他们发现久坐不利于身体健康。一天坐三个小时以上，预期寿命就会缩短两年——即使是经常锻炼身体的人依然如此。
One solution is to get up and move several times a day, and that’s where a standing desk comes in. But shop wisely. About 70 percent of people who buy a traditional sit-stand desk don’t move it out of the sitting position after the novelty wears off, typically in a few weeks, according to industry research. I learned that I was far more likely to take advantage of the standing feature if the desk automatically made me do it. (No manual hand crank for me.)
一个解决办法是每天多次站起来活动，站立式办公桌应运而生。不过我奉劝你明智购物，因为行业研究发现，在购买传统的坐立两用办公桌的人中，有约70%在新鲜感消失后（通常不过几周的时间）就再也没有把它调到站立使用的高度。反正我很清楚自己不太可能自觉地去利用办公桌的站立使用功能，除非它有办法自动迫使我站起来（别指望我自己摇动手柄升高办公桌的高度）。
The best sit-stand experience by far was also the most expensive. The Stir Kinetic Desk F1 ($4,190) and the Stir M1 ($2,990) are the work of the former Apple engineer JP Labrosse, who was part of the original iPod team. That pedigree shows. There is a five-inch touch-screen built into the surface, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity, and a thermal sensor on the underside that tracks your activity.
迄今为止给我最佳坐立体验的办公桌正是最昂贵的那一款。Stir Kinetic Desk F1（售价4190美元）和Stir M1（售价2990美元）都是苹果公司(Apple)的前任工程师JP·拉布罗斯(JP Labrosse)的杰作。他也曾经是iPod创始团队的一员，两种产品之间的传承关系很明显。该办公桌表面内置有五英寸（约合12.7厘米）触摸屏，可连接无线网络(Wi-Fi)和蓝牙，桌下还安装了温度传感器，用于跟踪你的活动情况。
As I tested the M1 one day, the touch-screen display showed five and a half hours of standing, three and a half hours of sitting and 359 calories burned. I exceeded my goal of standing half the time, and was on pace to burn the same number of calories in a week as I would running a marathon.
有一天我对M11型办公桌进行测试，触摸屏显示我站立了五个半小时，坐了三个半小时，共计燃烧了359卡路里。站立时间比我的目标长了一半，这样坚持一周的话，我所燃烧的卡路里数将相当于跑完一个马拉松。
Based on your settings, the desktop rises about an inch, then settles back down a few times an hour. Stir calls this “Whisperbreath,” a nudge that prompts you to change position without breaking your concentration.
根据你的设置，每小时桌面都会轻微地上升几次，每次一英寸左右（约合2.5厘米），然后又落回原来的位置。Stir称之为“Whisperbreath（直译为呼吸式低语）”，旨在在不影响你集中注意力的同时提醒你该改变姿势了。
The British-made TableAir ($2,300) and the Kickstarter-funded Autonomous Desk Smart Model (starting at $699) also offer high-end smart desks. To stand at the TableAir, press a button and hold out your arm — the desk automatically rises to the height of your hand. The Autonomous Desk, which begins shipping in July, promises a Siri-like voice-activated personal assistant and connects with other smart devices such as Nest orPhilips Hue to turn up the heat or turn off the lights.
英国制造的TableAir（售价2300美元）和Kickstarter资助的Autonomous Desk Smart Model（售价699美元起）也提供高端智能办公桌。如果你想用站姿使用TableAir，只需按下按钮，伸出你的手臂——办公桌就会自动上升到你手的高度。Autonomous Desk7月开始发货，该产品承诺会配备类似Siri的声控个人助理，并可与Nest或Philips Hue之类的智能设备连接，用于打开或关闭加热器和照明。
A budget-conscious option is the StandStand ($69), a portable wooden structure that turns any desk into a standing desk. The wood frame collapses to the size of a briefcase and can be quickly assembled and placed on the desktop at standing height. A similar product, the StorkStand ($199), attaches to an office chair. Portable models are affordable but not easily adjusted. They’re also easy to ignore.
精打细算的用户不妨考虑下StandStand（售价69美元），这是一种便携式的木结构，折叠起来时只有一个公文包大小，当你需要使用它时可以迅速组装起来并放置在桌面上，将你的办公桌加高到适合站立使用的位置。还有一款类似的产品StorkStand（售价199美元）适于安装在办公椅上。便携的款式经济实惠，但调整高度不方便，往往用着用着就丢到了一边。
Some companies offer conversion kits that turn your regular desk into a sit-stand desk. A desk-mounted stand like the iSkelter LIFT (starting at $298), or a desktop model from Varidesk (starting at $275) or Ergotron(starting around $250), sit on your desktop permanently and require manual adjustment as you sit and stand.
也有一些公司售卖能把普通办公桌改造成坐立两用办公桌的转换套件。像iSkelter LIFT（售价298美元起）之类的办公桌搁架以及Varidesk（售价275美元起）或爱格升(Ergotron)的桌面矮几（售价250美元起）都可以永久地安置在办公桌上，当你改变坐立姿势时，需要自己手动做调整。
The LIFT has a cup holder, and the Ergotron’s mechanical arm accessories hold your gadgets while you work. Function is emphasized over form, and the need to adjust the desk height manually can be a drawback. Ultimately, an on-desk attachment is best suited to those who can’t afford a pricier model or who work in an office where swapping furniture isn’t an option.
LIFT带有一个杯架，Ergotron的机械臂配件则可以在你工作时替你拿着小东西。这些桌面附加装置往往花哨多于实用，而且需要手动调节桌子的高度也可能会招人诟病。说到底，它们最适合那些买不起昂贵款式或者所工作的办公室不允许随意更换家具的人。
Motorized sit-stand desks don’t cost much more than the manual models. Motor noise and weight may vary from model to model, but not enough to change their appeal. IKEA’s Bekant Sit/Stand desk ($489) is a no-frills motorized desk with simple two-button adjustment controls. One look at the unassembled parts and instruction manual sent shivers up my spine. I put it together wrong twice, but once I got it up and running, it went from a sitting desk to a standing desk in seconds.
电动的坐立两用办公桌其实并不比手动的贵多少。不同型号在电机噪音和重量方面可能会有所不同，但这都无伤大雅。宜家(IKEA)的Bekant坐/立两用办公桌（售价489美元）是一款简洁的电动办公桌，配有简单的双按钮调节控件。未组装时，那些零部件和指导手册让我一看就觉得脊背发麻。我搞错了两次才把它拼装好，不过一旦它开始运行，只一秒的功夫它就从坐式办公桌变成了立式。
For a few hundred dollars more, there are the GeekDesk (starting at $749), the NextDesk (starting at $879) or one of the UpDesk Power Series 111 models (starting at $949). These electric sit-stand desks come with a variety of features, like the NextDesk memory controller for height settings and the UpDesk UpWrite’s erasable whiteboard, one of my favorites. The biggest downside of these midpriced desks is that the user has to hold down the up-down button to move from standing or sitting, a minor inconvenience that adds up over days and weeks.
如果你肯多花几百美元，可以选择GeekDesk（售价749美元起）、NextDesk（售价879美元起）或UpDesk Power Series Ⅲ中的任何一款（售价949美元起）。这些电动坐立两用办公桌功能众多，比如NextDesk的身高设置记忆体控制器和UpDesk UpWrite的可擦写白板等，顺便说，后者是我的最爱之一。这些中等价位办公桌最大的缺点在于，用户必须按住升降按钮才能将其从立式改为坐式，虽然只是小事，但经年累月终归不太方便。
For three months, I also tested the LifeSpan TR1200-DT7 ($1,999), a treadmill desk. I wanted to love it, but didn’t. The desk took up too much space in my home office, and it took me a while to get into the groove of walking slowly enough to concentrate on work. I experienced a feeling of motion sickness when I walked more than three miles an hour and felt woozy when I stepped off the treadmill, as if I’d been on a boat all day.
测试跑步机办公桌LifeSpan TR1200-DT7花了我三个月的时间。我对它期望甚高，以为自己会很爱用，可它令我失望。一方面它占去了我家庭办公室里太多的空间，另一方面我花了好一段时间才进入那种一边慢慢走一边还能专心工作的理想状态。只要步行的速度超过每小时三英里（约合4.8千米）我就有种晕车般的感觉，下了跑步机之后还会觉得头昏眼花，就跟坐了一整天的船似的。
While I preferred the sit-stand models over the treadmill model, I also learned the hard way that a desk sitter can’t be transformed into a stander overnight. It’s a rookie mistake to stand for hours at a time when you get your first sit-stand desk, and if you overdo it, you may end up like me, slumped in a chair at day’s end nursing sore feet, a strained back and aching joints. Experts recommend that those new to a sit-stand desk start by standing just five to 20 minutes each hour and working up from there.
虽然与跑步机办公桌相比，我更喜欢坐立两用的款式，但我也知道习惯久坐的人是不会在一夜之间就变得勤于站立的。而且新手常犯这样一种错误：在刚买来坐立两用办公桌时一次持续站立数小时之久。过犹不及，如果你一下子做得太过分，最后就可能落得像我一样一天下来只能瘫坐在椅子上，疲于护理自己酸痛的双脚、过于紧张的背部和疼痛的关节。专家建议，初次使用坐立两用办公桌时，可以从每小时站立5到20分钟开始，然后在此基础上逐渐延长时间。
Ultimately, choosing a standing desk is no different from picking any large furnishing, with budget and space the main considerations. But you should also consider that, as with any piece of furniture, you could have it for life — which may be a little longer now that you are not sitting all day.
归根结底，选择立式办公桌与选择任何大件家具并没有什么不同，预算和空间是你最主要的考虑因素。不过，你也应该想到这一点：像其它家具一样，你可能会用它一辈子——既然有了它之后你就不会整天坐着，你的寿命可能会长一些。