POCHEON, South Korea — Lee Min-bok’s house, fashioned out of two shipping containers, is monitored by 12 police surveillance cameras. Dogs woof at any stranger walking up the dirt path. Plainclothes detectives check his mailbox and tag along wherever he goes to protect him from possible assassins sent by North Korea, which openly threatens to kill him.
韩国抱川 —— 李民复(Lee Min-bok)住的房子是用两个海运集装箱拼起来的，房子有12个警察监控摄像头监视。狗对每个从土路上走来的陌生人大声地叫着。便衣侦探查看他信箱里的东西，不管他去哪儿，都有便衣跟着，保护他免遭朝鲜派来的刺客的毒手。朝鲜已对他公开发出威胁。
But that has not stopped him.
但这一切都没有让他停止。
On days when the wind blows to the north, Mr. Lee, 59, ventures out with his secondhand five-ton truck, hauling a large hydrogen tank to the border with North Korea, an hour’s drive away. There, he fills dozens of 23-foot and 39-foot barrel-shaped balloons with the gas and lets them drift away.
每到刮北风的日子，现年59岁的李民复就开着他的一辆二手5吨卡车，载着一个氢气罐，前往距他住的地方约一小时车程的朝鲜边境。在那里，他把几十个7米和12米的桶状气球用氢气冲起来，释放出去。
The balloons carry special payloads: radio sets, one-dollar bills, computer memory sticks and, above all, tens of thousands of leaflets bearing messages that Mr. Lee says will debunk the personality cult surrounding Kim Jong-un, the youthful leader of North Korea.
这些气球上载着特别的东西：无线电收音机、一美元的钞票、U盘，还有更重要的成千上万的宣传品。李民复说，宣传品上印的信息将揭穿有关朝鲜年轻领导人金正恩的个人崇拜神话。
“My leaflets are a poison for Kim Jong-un’s regime, because they help North Koreans wake up to his lies,” Mr. Lee said during an interview at his home.
“我的传单对金正恩政权来说是毒药，因为它们让朝鲜人认识到他的谎言，”李民复在家中接受采访时说。
Sailing 9,800 to 16,400 feet above sea level, Mr. Lee’s balloons waft across the world’s most heavily guarded border, high enough that North Korean soldiers have little chance of shooting them down. Then his patented “timer” devices click, unfastening vinyl bundles. Leaflets fall out like snowflakes over the North, where Mr. Kim struggles to keep his people under a total information blackout, blocking the internet and prefixing all radio and TV sets to receive only his government’s propaganda-filled broadcasts.
李民复的气球能越过世界上把守最严密的边境。气球的飞行高度在海拔3000米到5000米，这让朝鲜士兵几乎不可能把它们打下来。然后，他开启气球上的已经申请了专利的“定时”设备，将乙烯塑料袋打开。传单像雪片似的从朝鲜上空降下。朝鲜的金正恩尽量让其国民处于信息封闭状态，封锁互联网，把收音机和电视机预先设置成只能接受政府充满宣传的广播。
In South Korea, there are 50 “balloon warriors,” many of them defectors from the North like Mr. Lee, who seek to breach the wall with leaflets.
韩国有50个“气球勇士”，他们多是像李民复这样的脱北者，试图用传单来突破朝鲜的信息封锁。
Mr. Lee is their godfather. When he started floating large balloons in 2005, with others following suit, he received credit — and blame — for reigniting the leaflet battle the two Korean armies had waged until it petered out with the end of the Cold War. He now launches between 700 and 1,500 balloons a year, each carrying 30,000 to 60,000 leaflets.
李民复是他们的首领。他在2005年开始释放大型气球后，有不少人效仿。有人表扬他，也有人指责他重新点燃了冷战结束后逐渐削弱的韩国与朝鲜军队之间的传单战。他现在每年放700到1500个气球，每个气球携带3万到6万张传单。
To anyone who will listen, Mr. Lee preaches that the best way to reform North Korea and end its nuclear weapons program is to subvert Mr. Kim’s government from inside the country. And the surest way to do that, he says, is to infiltrate it with outside information through leaflets, radio broadcasts and DVDs filled with South Korean TV dramas and smuggled through the North’s border with China.
只要有人听，李民复就会向人们宣扬自己的观点，他认为改变朝鲜、结束其核武器计划的最好方法，是从朝鲜内部颠覆金正恩的政权。他说，而且，最可靠的做法是，通过传单、无线电广播，以及从中国和朝鲜边境偷运进去的充满韩国电视剧的DVD，让外面的信息渗透进去。
“Leaflets are the cheapest and safest,” Mr. Lee said. “No border guards, no radar, no radio jamming signals can stop them.”
李民复说，“传单最便宜，也最安全。边境的士兵无法阻止它们，雷达、或无线电信号屏蔽也阻止不了。”
With years of negotiations and sanctions failing to stop North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, Washington and its allies have begun paying more attention to waging an information war. Following the North’s fourth nuclear test in January, South Korea restarted front-line loudspeakers to send blaring propaganda broadcasts across the border. Last month, Washington announced a $1.6 million budget for projects to “foster the free flow of information into, out of, and within” North Korea.
多年的谈判和制裁没能让朝鲜停止其核武器计划，这使得华盛顿及其盟友开始重视信息战。今年1月朝鲜进行了第四次核试验后，韩国重新开始使用边境附近的扬声器，向对面的朝鲜大声播放宣传广播。上个月，华盛顿宣布为一个项目提供160万美元的预算，该项目旨在“促进信息进出（朝鲜），以及在内部的自由流动”。
While some defectors claim to have fled after reading leaflets or listening to outside radio, critics say leaflets do little more than provoke Pyongyang.
虽然有些脱北者宣称，他们是读了传单或听了外面的广播后逃出来的，但批评者说，传单除了激怒平壤外，作用不大。
It calls them an act of war and threatens to direct an artillery attack at their launching sites near the border. Balloonists have clashed with South Korean villagers worried about becoming targets of Northern retaliation.
朝鲜称发传单是战争行为，并威胁要用炮火打击边境附近的发放点。释放气球者与住在边境附近的韩国村民发生过冲突，村民担心会成为朝鲜报复的靶子。
In 2011, a man was arrested on a charge of plotting to assassinate a balloon activist at the behest of North Korea. Three years later, the North directed antiaircraft fire into the South Korean sky, trying to down one of Mr. Lee’s balloons. This year, it began retaliating in kind, floating to the South leaflets that called President Park Geun-hye a snake and a prostitute.
2011年，韩国曾逮捕了一名男子，他被指控受朝鲜指使图谋暗杀气球活动人士。三年后，朝鲜向韩国上空发射了高射炮，试图把李民复的气球打下来。今年，朝鲜开始用同样的方法进行报复，把传单发到韩国，传单称韩国总统朴瑾惠为蛇和婊子。
Andrei Lankov, a professor at Kookmin University in Seoul who grew up in the former Soviet Union and studied at a North Korean university, was skeptical about the impact of leaflets on the North.
首尔国民大学教授安德烈·兰科夫(Andrei Lankov)对传单对朝鲜的影响持怀疑态度，兰科夫在苏联长大，在朝鲜读的大学。
“One leaflet is not going to change views of a person who is exposed to daily official propaganda,” he said. “However, it would be mistake to stop the campaign now. That is what the North Korean authorities demand, and it is not a good time to show weakness.”
“一张传单不会改变一个每天都生活在官方宣传中的人的观点，”他说。“但是，现在停止发传单将是个错误。那正是朝鲜当局所要求的，现在不是示弱的时候。”
Mr. Lee avoids clashes with villagers by releasing his balloons away from their towns. Unlike more flamboyant activists, he seldom invites journalists to his launchings. The other activists’ leaflets often carry highly personal attacks on Kim Jong-un, ridiculing him as “a nuclear lunatic” and exhorting North Koreans to overthrow the “bloodthirsty pig.” Mr. Lee believes that a less provocative approach will yield better results.
李民复通过在远离村镇的地方释放气球来避免与村民发生冲突。与更爱炫耀的气球释放者不同，他很少邀请记者前来观看他的气球释放。其他活动人士的传单常常有针对金正恩的人身攻击，讥笑金正恩是“核疯子”，敦促朝鲜人推翻这个“嗜杀成性的猪”。
His leaflets, for instance, list the number of cars and other figures from South Korea’s vastly superior economy. It then asks North Koreans to ask ethnic Koreans from China, who often visit their country, whether those figures are correct. It also urges them to ask front-line soldiers to confirm that the South Korean fences on the border are awash with blinding lights at night while the energy-starved North is buried in darkness.
李民复的传单则给出比如汽车保有量等韩国经济数字，韩国的经济比朝鲜的好很多。传单然后让朝鲜人问问经常来访的中国朝鲜族人，那些数字对不对。传单还呼吁朝鲜人问问前线的士兵，边境那边韩国的铁丝网在夜里是不是灯火通明，而朝鲜这边由于没电漆黑一片。
There has been no reliable study on how many North Koreans read the leaflets or how they react.
没有可靠的研究表明究竟有多少朝鲜人读过传单，他们对传单如何反应。
Writing on the website 38 North, Ruediger Frank, a professor at the University of Vienna and a frequent visitor to North Korea, warned against assigning too much weight to the accounts of defectors and human-rights groups about discontent there, “thus creating the impression of an imminent uprising that only needs a little push from the outside to happen.”
维也纳大学教授若蒂戈·弗兰克(Ruediger Frank)经常去朝鲜，他在网站“三八线北”(38 North)上警告人们，不要过于相信脱北者或人权组织有关朝鲜人不满的描述，他写道，“那些故事给人一种朝鲜人马上要起义的印象，只需要来自外部世界的一点点推动。”
But Mr. Lee said his own story is proof that a leaflet can change a North Korean’s life.
但李民复说，他本人的故事就是传单改变了一个朝鲜人生活的印证。
He was a biologist at a state-run agricultural research institute in 1990 when he picked up a leaflet from the South while on a trip near the border. It made what was to him the shocking claim that the Korean War started in 1950 with a North Korean invasion.
他曾是一家国营农业研究所的生物学家，1990年，他在边境附近旅行时，收到了一张来自韩国的传单。传单说，1950年爆发的朝鲜半岛战争是朝鲜入侵引起的，这个说法当时对他来说相当震惊。
In the North, he said, the government had taught people to hate the Americans by endlessly reiterating that the United States and its South Korean puppets started the war. Mr. Lee did his own research, asking old veterans and people who had lived near the border when the war started, and became convinced the leaflet was right.
他说，朝鲜政府一直在无休止地重复一种说法，既美国及其韩国傀儡制造了朝鲜半岛战争，以此来教育人民仇恨美国人。李民复对此做了自己的研究，他向老兵和住在边境附近的人询问战争是什么时候开始的，并开始相信传单上的说法是对的。
By then, his faith had already been shaken, after the authorities reprimanded him for suggesting agricultural reforms.
到那时，他因为提出农业改革而遭到当局的训斥，他的信心也已经动摇。
Mr. Lee fled the North in 1991 and, after traveling through China and Russia, arrived in the South in 1995. On his way, he was helped and baptized by South Korean missionaries.
李民复1991年逃离朝鲜，途经中国和俄罗斯，于1995年到达韩国。在路上他获得了一些韩国传教士的帮助，并且接受了洗礼。
Today, sending balloons is Mr. Lee’s full-time job. He finances his operation with cash he earns from lectures he gives at churches and elsewhere. Christians also donate, asking him to drop small Bibles and food into the North. A Japanese group contributes with the understanding he will send leaflets urging North Koreans to help find the whereabouts of dozens of Japanese believed to have been abducted to the North.
如今，放气球成了李民复的全职工作。活动经费来自于他在教会和其他地方举办讲座挣的钱。一些基督徒也捐了钱，请他把《圣经》便携本和食品投到朝鲜。日本一个组织也提供了部分资金，认为他的传单可以敦促朝鲜人帮助寻找一些日本人的下落，据信有数十名日本人被绑架到了朝鲜。
Mr. Lee said his obsession with leaflets made him neglect his family. The South Korean wife he married in 1996 divorced him. He is now married to a Chinese woman who is far more supportive.
李民复说自己对发传单太过痴迷，因此忽视了家人。他1996年娶的韩国太太已经和他离婚。现在他娶了一个更加支持他工作的中国女子。
“You need a partner in this work,” Mr. Lee said. “You don’t know when the right wind will blow, and your wife is the only helping hand you can get when you have to rush out with balloons.”
“做这项工作需要一个搭档，”李民复说。“你不知道什么时候会有合适的风向，当你必须带着气球冲出去时，你唯一的帮手就是妻子。”