TACLOBAN, Philippines — Decomposing bodies still lie along the roads, like a corpse in a pink, short-sleeved shirt and blue shorts facedown in a black, muddy puddle 100 yards from the airport. Just down the road is a church that was supposed to be an evacuation center but is littered with the bodies of those who drowned inside.
菲律宾塔克洛班——开始腐烂的尸体依然躺在道路两旁，比如在距机场100码（约合90米）远的地方就能看到一具穿着粉红短袖T恤和蓝色短裤的尸体，脸朝下地浮在一个黑色的水洼里。这条路上不远的地方就有一座教堂，那里本该是一个疏散中心，但却散落着淹死在里面的人的遗体。
When a wind-whipped ocean rose Friday night, the ground floors of homes hundreds of yards inland were submerged within minutes, trapping residents like Virginia Basinang, a 54-year-old retired teacher, who suddenly found herself struggling in waist-deep water on the second floor of her home. Screaming people bobbed in the water that surged through the streets, many grabbing for floating debris.
周五晚上，狂风卷起巨浪，几分钟之内，洪水就淹没了距海岸几百码远的房屋的底层，困住了屋里的居民，包括54岁的退休教师比希尼娅·巴辛昂(Virginia Basinang)在内。巴辛昂突然发现，自己在家中二楼齐腰深的水里挣扎求生。水在街上汹涌流淌，尖叫的人们随着水流上下起伏，许多人都抓着漂浮的残骸。
“Some of them were able to hold on, some were lucky and lived, but most did not,” she said, adding that 14 bodies were left on a wall across the street when the seawater receded a half-hour later. The bodies are still there, and the odor of their decay makes it impossible for Ms. Basinang and her family to eat meals at home.
“一些人有能力坚持，一些人运气好，活了下来，但大部分人都不是，”她说。她补充说，半小时之后，海水退去，街对面的一堵墙上留下了14具尸体。那些尸体到现在还在那里，尸体腐烂的气味让巴辛昂和家人没法在家里吃饭。
Typhoon Haiyan, among the most powerful in history, slammed into the eastern Philippine city of Tacloban four days ago and cut a path of devastation barreling west across the archipelago nation. In its wake, corpses lay along roads lined with splintered homes and toppled power lines, as the living struggled to survive, increasingly desperate for fresh drinking water, food and shelter. The damage to everything was so great that it was hard even to tally. Mass graves began to fill as relief efforts struggled to get underway.
四天前，风力居史上前列的台风“海燕”(Typhoon Haiyan)袭击菲律宾东部城市塔克洛班，在这个群岛国家留下了一条从东向西的毁灭之路。“海燕”过境后，道路沿途尸体遍布，路边房屋分崩离析，电线也被冲毁。幸存者艰难求生，对新鲜饮用水、食品和避难所的需求越来越迫切。各方面遭受的损失都非常严重，以致于很难对损失进行统计。随着救援工作勉力展开，许多遇难者开始集体入葬。
The roads of this once-thriving city of 220,000 were so clogged with debris from nearby buildings that they were barely discernible. The civilian airport terminal has shattered walls and gaping holes in the roof where steel beams protrude, twisted and torn by winds far more powerful than those of Hurricane Katrina when it made landfall near New Orleans in 2005.
这座曾经繁荣的城市有22万人口，城里的道路如今堆满了邻近建筑的瓦砾，几乎看不出道路的存在。这里的民用机场航站楼的墙被毁坏，楼顶大洞中露出来的钢筋，已被强风扭曲和撕裂，此次台风的风力远远超过了2005年在美国新奥尔良附近登陆的“卡特里娜”飓风(Hurricane Katrina)。
One of the saddest and deadliest moments came when hundreds of people flocked to Tacloban’s domed sports arena at the urging of municipal officials, who believed its sturdy roof would withstand the wind. The roof did, but the arena flooded, and many inside drowned or were trampled in a frenzied rush to higher seats.
数百人在市政官员的敦促下涌入了塔克洛班半球形的体育场，最可悲、人员伤亡最严重的时刻之一由此来临。这些官员认为体育场的坚固屋顶能抵御强风，事实也的确如此，但体育场却被水淹了，里面有许多人被淹死，或是在惊慌奔向高处座位的过程中遭到踩踏。
The top civil defense official of the Philippines said in an interview after inspecting the damage that the storm surge had been the highest in the country’s modern history, perhaps explaining why so few thought they needed to flee inland and instead went to evacuation centers near the coast. Nothing like this had ever happened. The sea level rose 10 to 13 feet and filled streets and homes deep in the city, propelled by sustained winds of at least 140 miles an hour and gusts that were far stronger.
视察完灾情后，菲律宾最高民防官员在接受采访时说，这次风暴潮是该国现代史上最严重的，或许是为了解释，当时人们为什么都不觉得应该逃往内陆，反而去了沿海的疏散中心。以前从未出现过类似的事情。借着速度至少为每小时140英里的持续性强风，以及风力远强于此的阵风，海平面上涨了10至13英尺（约合4米），海水灌进市中心的街道和房屋。
“It was a tsunami-like storm surge; it is the first time,” said Eduardo del Rosario, the executive director of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council. Tacloban has been hit by typhoons for decades, but never had the sea risen high enough to pour over the swath of low salt marshes and inundate the city’s shady streets, he said.
“这是一次类似海啸的风暴潮，属首次，”国家减灾风险管理委员会(National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council)执行主任爱德华多·德罗萨里奥(Eduardo del Rosario)在视察完受灾情况后，在一次采访中这样说。几十年中，塔克洛班多次遭到台风袭击，他说，但以前的海水从未上升到这么高，以至于冲过了较低盐沼泽地段，淹没了这座城市绿树成荫的街道。
As a violet sunset melted on Monday evening into the nearly total darkness of a city without electricity, lighted only by a waxing half-moon, dispirited residents walked home or lay down in the ruins of the airport terminal after another day of waiting at the airport in hope of fresh water, food or a flight out. Grocery stores and pharmacies across the city had been sacked over the weekend, leaving bare shelves for a city quickly growing hungry and thirsty.
周一傍晚，紫红色的落日渐渐消失之后，这座没有电的城市几乎是一片漆黑，只有半个上弦月洒下的一点光亮。垂头丧气的居民们开始往家里走，或是躺在机场航站楼的废墟里，他们又在机场度过了等待的一天，希望获得淡水和食物，或是搭乘一架航班离开这里。周末期间，哄抢者已经把这座城市的食杂店和药房洗劫一空，人们面临着快速加剧的饥饿和口渴问题。
A coast guardsman said that he had helped fill a mass grave in the nearby village of Hernani. “I personally threw in one body earlier, and it was a relative of my friend in Manila — I haven’t told her yet because I can’t get a signal” for cellphone usage, said the coast guardsman, who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media. The same friend in Manila has lost her grandfather, whom the coast guardsman threw in the mass grave, as well as her aunt and two cousins, the guardsman added, saying that other relatives who survived the typhoon had confirmed the identities of the dead.
一名海岸卫兵说，他在附近的埃尔纳尼(Hernani)村帮着进行了一次集体安葬。他说，“我亲自放进去了一具尸体，那是我在马尼拉的一个朋友的亲戚，我还没有告诉她，因为没有信号”，用不了手机。这名卫兵坚持要求匿名，因为他无权对媒体发布消息。他补充说，那个身在马尼拉的朋友还失去了祖父、姑妈和两个堂兄妹。他说，幸存下来的亲戚证实了死者的身份。他亲手放进集体坟墓里的便是那个朋友的祖父。
This regional capital, the hometown of Imelda Marcos, was among the hardest hit in a nation accustomed to misery blown in from the sea. But this storm was like nothing before it, and its devastation was not yet fully understood. Villages along the coasts may have been wiped out, and the toll — at least 10,000 in Tacloban alone are feared dead — was just an estimate. Relief efforts were complicated by a persistent and heavy rain.
即便是对这个见惯海风天灾的民族来说，这个地区首府也处于最重的灾区之列。这个城市还是伊梅尔达·马科斯(Imelda Marcos)的家乡。不过，这场风暴和之前的任何一场完全不同，它造成的破坏也还没有得到充分的了解。海边的村子可能已被彻底摧毁，死亡人数仅仅是估计而已——单是塔克洛班，恐怕就死了至少1万人。持续的大雨使得救援行动更加艰难。
Miriam Refugio, 60, waited in the crowd of Filipinos at the airport seeking a scarce place on a flight to Manila. “Our home was destroyed, there is no food in this town, so we have to flee,” she said, standing with her teenage granddaughter who held their only drinking water, a nearly empty plastic bottle that could hold perhaps two cups.
60岁的米丽娅姆·雷富吉奥(Miriam Refugio)在机场的大群菲律宾人当中等待，想在飞往马尼拉的航班上弄到一个紧缺的座位。她说，“我们的家被毁了，这个镇上没有食物，所以我们必须逃离。”她和十多岁的孙女站在一起，她的孙女拿着她们仅有的饮用水，那是个几乎空了的塑料瓶，里面也许还剩两杯水。
They were trying to decide whether to drink water from a nearby pump even though the granddaughter, tugging at her stomach for emphasis, said that they were certain to become sick if they did.
她们正在犹豫，是否饮用附近一个水泵抽出来的水，尽管她的孙女使劲拽着自己的肚皮强调说，喝那种水肯定会生病。
Mr. del Rosario said the government was still sending out helicopters on Monday to look for communities that had not been heard from since the typhoon. The government had confirmed 1,563 deaths through Sunday evening in the hardest-hit region of the east-central Philippines, and the death toll would “most likely” rise, he said.
德罗萨里奥说，周一，政府依然在派遣直升机搜索自台风袭来后就断绝了消息的社区。他说，周日晚间，政府已经确认菲律宾中东部灾情最重的地区死了1563个人，死亡人数“极有可能”继续攀升。
But one of the biggest questions here involves the many people who seem to have disappeared, possibly sucked out to sea when the ocean returned to its usual level.
不过，这里最大的问题之一涉及到许多似乎已经失踪的人，他们可能是在洋面恢复正常水位时被卷入了大海。
Rosemary Balais, 39, said that a very large proportion, possibly more than half, of the 5,000 people in her hometown Tanauan, near Tacloban, seemed to be missing. “My sister and their children were there, and we have not heard from them since last Thursday,” she said, adding that they had lived only around 300 yards inland.
39岁的罗斯玛丽·巴莱斯(Rosemary Balais)说，她的家乡是位于塔克洛班附近的塔纳万，当地有5000人口，其中有很大一部分似乎已经失踪，也许超过了一半。她说，“我的姐姐和外甥就在那里，自上周四以来，我们就没听说过他们的消息。”她还说，他们住在离海边只有约300码的地方。
“There was a neighbor who had won a lottery and had a big house, and even that house was flattened,” she said.
她说，“有一个中了彩票的邻居，那人有一座大房子，就连那座房子都已被夷为平地。”
Compounding the damage was the extraordinary force of the wind. Palm trees are naturally resilient, flexing and bending in high winds. But entire groves were flattened and their trunks left in tangles on the ground as though giant boxes of toothpicks had been tipped over.
让损害加剧的是非比寻常的风力。棕榈树拥有天然的韧性，能在疾风中灵活弯曲。可是，整片整片的棕榈树林都已被风刮倒，树干散在地上乱作一团，就像是一个个打翻了的巨型牙签盒。
In a country cursed by a succession of natural disasters, from earthquakes to violent storms to volcanic eruptions, the typhoon was especially deadly and destructive. “It’s going to be classified as one of the worst, if not the worst, in decades,” among disasters that have struck the Philippines, said Ricky Carandang, a presidential spokesman.
在这个苦于从地震、风暴到火山爆发的一连串天灾的国家，这次台风造成的伤亡和损害尤为严重。总统的发言人里奇·卡兰丹(Ricky Carandang)说，在袭击菲律宾的灾害中，“这次台风即使不被列为几十年来最严重的天灾，也会被列为最严重天灾之一。”
The local government has declared a state of emergency and a curfew in Tacloban, and the national government was considering an emergency declaration in the city as well to speed the release of government money, Mr. Carandang said. The government was trying to fly in military and civilian police to restore law and order, but progress was slow. Hundreds of soldiers and dozens of relief workers milled around the Cebu airport throughout the morning, waiting for a plane to carry them to Tacloban.
卡兰丹说，地方政府已经宣布塔克洛班进入国家紧急状态，并宣布实施戒严，菲律宾政府也正在考虑宣布该市进入紧急状态，同时加快发放政府救援款。政府正在设法用飞机运送军队和民警，以便重建当地的法律和秩序，不过进展相当缓慢。数百名士兵和几十名救援人员在宿务机场周围奔忙了一上午，等待一架飞机把他们运往塔克洛班。
Richard Gordon, chairman of the Philippines Red Cross, said in a telephone interview on Monday morning that more flights would be needed to bring in relief supplies. A Red Cross convoy headed here on Sunday had to turn back when it stopped at a collapsed bridge and was nearly hijacked by a hungry crowd, he said, calling for a more visible police and military presence.
菲律宾红十字会(Philippines Red Cross)主席理查德·戈登(Richard Gordon)在周一早上接受电话采访时说，需要更多的飞机来运送救援物资。他说，于周日赶往这里的一个红十字会车队不得不折返，因为车队停在了一座倒塌的桥边，几乎遭到饥饿人群的劫持。他呼吁部署更多的警力和军力。
Some of the people searching here for lost relatives were sobbing softly. One was April Escoto, 28, from Tacloban who went on vacation to Cebu with her 24-year-old sister two days before the typhoon hit. Ms. Escoto left her sister in Cebu after they concluded that the lawless streets of Tacloban were too dangerous for them to risk what might be the two last members of their family.
在这里搜索失踪亲属的一些民众正在轻声啜泣。28岁的阿普丽尔·埃斯科托(April Escoto)便是其中之一，台风来袭的两天前，她和24岁的妹妹从塔克洛班到宿务度假。埃斯科托把妹妹留在了宿务，因为她们觉得，塔克洛班无法无天的街头太过危险，可能会危及她们的性命，而她们也许是家中仅存的两名成员。
“Since the storm hit,” she said, “we have not heard anything from our family.”
她说，“风暴来袭后，我们再也没听到家里传来的任何消息。”