TACLOBAN, Philippines — The largest storm surge in modern history in the Philippines sent walls of water over half a mile inland along a crowded coastline when Typhoon Haiyan came ashore here last Friday, erasing villages and towns and leaving thousands of people dead or missing.
菲律宾独鲁万——台风“海燕”上周五在这里登陆时，引发了菲律宾现代历史上最大的风暴潮，海浪像一堵水墙似地席卷了一个沿海的人口稠密地区，深入内陆近1公里，淹没了村庄和城镇，致使数千人死亡或失踪。
Shattered buildings line every road of this once-thriving city of 220,000 and many of the streets are still so clogged with debris from nearby buildings that they are barely discernible. The civilian airport terminal here has shattered walls and gaping holes in the roof where steel beams protrude, twisted and torn by winds far more powerful than those of Hurricane Katrina when it made landfall near New Orleans in 2005.
这座曾经繁荣的城市有22万人口，如今每条路边都是垮塌的房屋，多条街道依然被附近建筑的瓦砾掩埋着，以至于几乎看不出道路的存在。这里的民用机场航站楼的墙被毁坏，楼顶大洞中露出来的钢筋，已被强风扭曲和撕裂，此次台风的风力远远超过了2005年在美国新奥尔良附近登陆的“卡特里娜”飓风(Hurricane Katrina)。
Decomposing bodies still lie along the roads, like the corpse in a pink, short-sleeved shirt and blue shorts facedown in a puddle 100 yards from the airport. Just down the road lies a church that was supposed to be an evacuation center but is littered with the bodies of those who drowned inside.
开始腐烂的尸体依然躺在道路两傍，比如在距机场约90米远的地方就能看到一具穿着粉红短袖T恤和蓝色短裤的尸体，脸朝下地浮在一个水洼里。
The top civil defense official of the Philippines said in an interview after inspecting the damage that the storm surge had been the highest in the country’s modern history. The sea level rose 10 to 13 feet and filled streets and homes deep in the city, propelled by sustained winds of at least 140 miles per hour and gusts that were far stronger.
菲律宾高级民防官员在视察了灾情之后说，此次风暴潮是菲律宾现代历史上最高的。构成风暴潮的高达3米到4米的海浪，在风速为每小时至少230公里的持续狂风的推动下，灌进了这座城市纵深地带的街道和房屋。
“It was a tsunami-like storm surge, it is the first time,” said Eduardo del Rosario, the executive director of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council, in an interview after inspecting the damage here. Tacloban has been hit by typhoons for decades, but never before had the sea risen high enough to pour over the swath of low salt marshes and inundate the city’s shady streets, he said.
“这是一次类似海啸的风暴潮，属首次，”国家减灾风险管理委员会(National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council)执行主任爱德华多·德罗萨里奥(Eduardo del Rosario)在此地视察灾情况后，在一次采访中这样说。几十年中，独鲁万多次遭到台风袭击，他说，但以前的海水从未上升到这么高，以至于冲过了较低盐沼泽地段，淹没了这座城市绿树成荫的街道。
As a violet sunset melted on Monday evening into the nearly total darkness of a city without electricity, lighted only by a waxing half moon, dispirited residents walked home after another day of waiting at the airport in hope of fresh water, food or a flight out. Looters sacked groceries and pharmacies across the city over the weekend, leaving bare shelves for a population now quickly growing hungry and thirsty.
随着周一傍晚的紫红色落日消失在天际线下，这座没有电的城市几乎是一片漆黑，只有半个上弦月洒下的一点光亮，垂头丧气的居民们往家里走着，他们又在机场度过了等待的一天，希望能获得淡水、食物，或是能搭乘一架航班离开这里。周末期间，哄抢者已经把这座城市的食品店和杂货店洗劫一空，人们正快速面临着越来越多的饥饿和口渴问题。
Miriam Refugio, 60, waited in the crowd of Filipinos at the airport seeking a scarce place on a flight to Manila. “Our home was destroyed, there is no food in this town, so we have to flee,” she said, standing with her teenage granddaughter who held their only drinking water, a nearly empty plastic bottle that even when full would only hold perhaps two cups.
60岁的米丽娅姆·胡夫吉欧(Miriam Refugio)与一群菲律宾人一起在机场等待，希望能在飞往马尼拉的航班上找到一个稀缺的座位。她说，“我们的家已经被毁了，这座城里没有粮食，所以我们必须逃离。”站在她身旁的她十几岁的孙女手里拿着她们唯一的饮用水，那是一个几乎空了的塑料瓶子，即便瓶子装满了水或许也不过两杯而已。
They were trying to decide whether to drink water from a nearby pump, even though the granddaughter, tugging at her stomach for emphasis, said that they were certain to become sick if they did.
她们正在决定是否要从附近的一个抽水机那里喝水，尽管这个孙女揉着肚子强调说如果喝那里的水她们肯定会得病。
Mr. del Rosario said the government was still sending out helicopters on Monday to look for communities that had not been heard from since the typhoon. The government had confirmed 1,563 deaths through Sunday evening in the hardest-hit region of the east-central Philippines, and the death toll will “most likely” rise, he said.
德罗萨里奥说，政府周一仍在派直升机寻找那些自台风登陆以来就没有消息的社区。政府在周日晚上已经确定在菲律宾受灾最严重的东部-中部地区已有1563人死亡，而且他说，死亡人数“肯定”会上升。
But one of the biggest questions here involves the many people who seem to have disappeared, possibly sucked out to sea when the ocean returned to its usual level.
但是这里一个最大的问题是有多少人失踪，看来很多人似乎是在海水退下时被卷入了大海里。
Rosemary Balais, 39, said that a very large proportion, possibly more than half, of the 5,000 people in her hometown Tanauan, near Tacloban, seemed to be missing. “My sister and their children were there and we have not heard from them since last Thursday,” she said, adding that they had lived only around 300 yards inland from the coast.
39岁的罗斯玛丽·巴莱(Rosemary Balais)说，她的老家是独鲁万附近的塔纳万，那里5000人的人口中有一大部分，可能超过一半，看来失踪了。她说，“我妹妹和他们的孩子们就住在那儿，从上周四到现在一直没有他们的消息。”她还说他们住的地方距离海岸线只有约270米的距离。
“There was a neighbor who had won a lottery and had a big house, and even that house was flattened,” she said.
她说，“他们有个邻居中了彩票，盖了一栋大房子，但这座房子也塌了。”
Compounding the damage was the extraordinary force of the wind. Palm trees are naturally resilient, flexing and bending in high winds. But entire groves were flattened and their trunks left in tangles on the ground as though giant boxes of toothpicks had been tipped over.
异常强大的风力增加了破坏的程度。棕榈树具有很强的天然恢复力，其树干柔软，能在大风中弯曲。但整片的棕榈树林都被刮倒了，横七竖八地倒落在地上的树干，看上去就像是巨大的牙签盒被打翻了似的。
In a country cursed with a succession of natural disasters, from earthquakes to violent storms to volcanic eruptions, the typhoon has emerged as especially deadly and destructive. “It’s going to be classified as one of the worst, if not the worst, in decades,” among disasters that have struck the Philippines, said Ricky Carandang, a presidential spokesman.
在这个最近发生过从地震到强风再到火山爆发等一连串自然灾害的国家，这次台风的致命程度和破坏力尤其强大。总统发言人里基·卡兰丹(Ricky Carandang)说，在菲律宾所遭受的自然灾害中，“这次台风将被列为几十年来最严重的一次，如果不就是几十年中最严重的话。”
The local government has declared a state of emergency and a curfew in Tacloban, and the national government is considering the declaration of an emergency in the city as well to speed the release of government money, Mr. Carandang said. The government is trying to fly in military and civilian police to restore law and order, but progress has been slow. Hundreds of soldiers and dozens of relief workers milled through the morning at Cebu airport, waiting for a plane to carry them to Tacloban.
卡兰丹说，当地政府已经宣布独鲁万进入紧急状态，并实施了宵禁，国家政府也正在考虑宣布该市进入紧急状态，并将加快发放政府救援资金的速度。政府试图将部队和民警空运进该市以维持法律和秩序，但进展一直缓慢。数百名士兵和几十名救援人员聚集在宿雾机场，等待将他们运往独鲁万的飞机。
Richard Gordon, the chairman of the Philippines Red Cross, said in a telephone interview on Monday morning that more flights would be needed to bring in relief supplies. A Red Cross convoy headed here on Sunday had to turn back when it stopped at a collapsed bridge and was then nearly hijacked by a hungry crowd, he said, calling for a more visible police and military presence.
菲律宾红十字会(Red Cross)主席理查德·戈登(Richard Gordon)在周一早上接受电话采访时说，需要更多的飞机来把救援物资运往该市。他说，周日开往当地的一个红十字会车队，遇到一座被摧毁的桥梁后，不得不掉头返回，车队停下来时，差点遭到一群饥民的劫持，他呼吁需要更多的看得见的警察和部队。
Some of the people searching here for lost relatives were sobbing softly. One of these was April Escoto, 28, from Tacloban who went on vacation to Cebu with her 24-year-old sister two days before the typhoon hit. Ms. Escoto left her sister in Cebu after they concluded that the lawless streets of Tacloban were too dangerous for them to risk what might be the two last members of their family.
一些在这里寻找失踪亲属的人轻声地哭泣着。其中一位是28岁的阿普丽尔·埃斯科托(April Escoto)，她在台风登陆两天前和24岁的妹妹一起去宿雾休假。她决定自己一人回独鲁万，把妹妹留在了宿雾，因为她们觉得这里毫无秩序的街道对可能是她们家的最后两名幸存者来说，太过于危险了。
“Since the storm hit,” she said, “we have not heard anything from our family.”
她说，“从风暴袭来到现在，我们一直没有家人的任何消息。”