NEW DELHI — The powerful cyclone that struck India’s eastern coast this weekend washed away thousands of mud homes, knocked down power lines, blocked many of the region’s roads and damaged crops and fishing boats. But reports from the region on Sunday showed the success of one of the biggest and most rapid evacuations in India’s history, an operation that moved more than 800,000 people to safety.
新德里——上周末，印度东海岸遭到强有力的飓风袭击，数千座泥筑住宅被卷走，输电线路也被刮断，该地区的很多道路都被堵塞，农田和渔船也受到损坏。然而，该地区周日的报道显示，印度历史上规模与速度均居前列的一次疏散工作取得了成功，共有逾80万人被转移到了安全地区。
Just 14 years ago, a cyclone in roughly the same place killed more than 10,000 people, and over the past century, the storms that have roared out of the Bay of Bengal have left much death and destruction in their wake. But while an accurate assessment of the damage caused by this weekend’s storm will probably take weeks, the official death toll reported Sunday evening was 17, an astonishingly low number considering that 12 million people live in the storm’s path.
仅仅14年前，地点大致相同的一场飓风共导致1万余人死亡；上个世纪，从孟加拉湾袭来的暴风雨导致了大量人员死亡，带来了极大的破坏。关于上周末飓风造成损害的精确估算多半要再过几周才能出炉，官方周日夜间报道的死亡人数则是17。鉴于暴风雨路径上居住着1200万人，这个数字小得惊人。
The success of the evacuation operation was possible largely because of vast improvements in the country’s physical infrastructure and communication systems, although the police found it necessary, at times, to coerce reluctant villagers to leave their mud and thatch homes, which were vulnerable to high winds and drenching rain, local officials said.
当地官员称，疏散工作之所以能取得成功，很大程度上可能是因为印度的基础设施和通讯系统得到了很大改善，尽管有些时候，警察不得不使用强迫的方法，才能让不情不愿的村民离开他们用泥土和茅草建造的房屋。这种屋子极易受狂风骤雨的影响。
Most of the deaths were attributed to falling trees and collapsed houses, officials said. The cyclone, named Phailin, was expected to drop up to 10 inches of rain over two days in some areas. By late Sunday night, it had been downgraded from a cyclone to a depression, with sustained winds of 25 miles per hour and gusts of 34 miles per hour.
官员说，大多数伤亡都是由倒下的树木和坍塌的房屋造成的。这场飓风名为费林(Phailin)，预计会在两天之内给一些地区带来多达10英寸（约合254毫米）的降雨。不过，周日深夜，它的威力已经减弱，由飓风变成低压气旋，持续风速为每小时25英里（约合56.4公里），阵风风速为每小时34英里。
Change can come slowly to India. The caste system still predominates, grinding poverty remains endemic and clean water is rare. But the effective response to the threat this weekend demonstrates that Indians are transforming their country, particularly in the ways that they communicate and get their news.
有些时候，印度的变化很慢。种姓制度仍占有重要地位，赤贫现象依然普遍，干净的用水也很稀缺。但是，印度本周末对这场威胁的有效回应表明，印度人正在改造他们的国家，尤其是交流和获取消息的方式。
Nearly a billion people routinely use cellphones in India, up from fewer than 40 million a decade ago. Even many of the poorest villages now have televisions, and India’s numerous 24-hour news channels have blanketed the nation’s airwaves with coverage of the storm.
印度大约有10亿人经常使用手机，而10年之前，手机用户还不足4000万。目前，即便那些最贫困的山村也已拥有电视，为数众多的24小时新闻频道用有关风暴的报道占据了全国各地的电视屏幕。
As the cyclone approached, many villagers tried to stay behind to safeguard their land and livestock during the worst of the storm, according to local news reports, but almost none were unaware of the coming danger. And that is a huge change. Another crucial change has been a boom in the construction of cement houses, schools and businesses that provide crucial shelter in even the remotest areas. Villagers who stayed until the last moment had somewhere to go for safety.
据当地媒体报道，飓风临近之时，很多村民都试图在暴风雨最严重的时候留下来，保卫自己的土地和家畜，但几乎没有人不知道即将到来的危险。这是一个巨大的变化。另一个重要变化在于建设水泥住房、学校及商业用房的热潮，这种热潮覆盖了最边远的地区，带来了关键的避难场所。这一来，坚持到最后一刻的村民就有了可以避难的地方。
K. Baliah, a district official from Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh State, said that some of the 60,000 people evacuated in the district did not leave their homes willingly. All were allowed home on Sunday, he said.
安得拉邦斯里加古兰的地方官员K·巴利亚(K. Baliah)表示，该地区疏散了大约六万人，其中一些人本来不愿离开自己的家。他表示，到了周日，所有人都可以回家了。
“People are complaining that they knew nothing would happen, but officials forced them to move anyway,” he said with no apology.
他毫无歉意地说道，“人们还在抱怨，他们觉得不会发生什么事，官员却迫使他们转移。”
With at least 1,000 acres of farmland submerged and many thatched homes and fishing boats destroyed, officials said their coercion proved effective. But Mr. Baliah said that because the cyclone was not as severe as predicted, officials would have a harder time persuading large numbers of people to evacuate in the future.
鉴于至少有1000英亩（约合404公顷）农田被淹没，还有很多茅草屋和渔船被毁，官员们表示，事实已经证明，他们强迫居民转移的举措发挥了作用。但巴利亚表示，由于此次飓风没有预计的那么严重，官员们未来将更难说服大批的人撤离。
Dr. Jibanananda Mohanty, a retired veterinary surgeon from Bhubaneswar in the state of Odisha, said by telephone on Sunday that he had spent a harrowing night listening to howling winds and crashing trees outside, and that his home remained without electricity and water. But he had days to store enough water, milk, vegetables and other supplies to carry him through.
奥里萨邦布巴内斯瓦尔的退休兽医贾巴南安达·莫汉蒂(Jibanananda Mohanty)博士周日通过电话表示，他听着外面的咆哮风声和树木折断的声响，度过了一个悲惨的晚上，家里还一直处于断电断水的状态。但他几天来储存了足够的水、牛奶、蔬菜和其他物品，足以渡过难关。
“Because of the advanced warning, we were prepared for this situation,” Dr. Mohanty said. “I haven’t heard of any loss of life in my neighborhood.”
“由于预先的警告，我们都为此做好了准备，”莫汉蒂说。“我没听说我家附近有人丧命。”