SEPANG, Malaysia — Mohammad Mallaeibasir said his goodbyes to his childhood friend from Iran at the sprawling international airport here last March 7. Parting was easy then. Both he and his friend were teenagers with their whole lives, and presumably many reunions, ahead of them.
马来西亚雪邦——今年3月7日，穆罕默德·马拉艾巴西尔(Mohammad Mallaeibasir)在这里巨大的国际机场，送别了来自伊朗的儿时伙伴。那一刻，道别并不难。他和他的朋友们都只是十几岁的少年，眼前还有漫长的人生，照理说也还有许多次重聚。
But the friend was a passenger aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 bound for Beijing, which disappeared from ground controllers’ screens less than an hour after takeoff and veered far-off course, prompting a vast search operation that, nine months later, has yet to locate the jet or anyone who was on it. On Sunday night, Mr. Mallaeibasir received a message on Facebook from his friend’s mother, asking him about a recent article on the aircraft, as she continues trying to learn what happened to her son.
但是，他的朋友登上了马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)飞往北京的MH370航班。飞机在起飞不到一小时后，便从地面控制台的屏幕上消失，并且严重偏离航线，各方由此展开了大规模的搜寻工作。但时间已经过去了9个月，仍然没有找到飞机和机上的乘客。周日晚上，马拉艾巴西尔收到了朋友的母亲通过Facebook发来的消息。这位母亲仍然在试图弄明白儿子身上发生了什么，她又向马拉艾巴西尔问起了最近一篇关于那次航班的文章。
“If they get any answer, I think it’s better than knowing nothing,” Mr. Mallaeibasir, 19, said of the search effort in a telephone interview on Monday. “Even a bad answer is better than no answer.”
“只要他们找到了答案，我都认为比一无所知更好，”周一，19岁的马拉艾巴西尔在电话采访中谈到搜索工作时说。 “糟糕的答案都好过完全没有答案。”
Malaysians have been confronted by many unanswered questions this year about a string of aviation disasters: the disappearance of Flight 370; the crash of another Malaysia Airlines jetliner, Flight 17, in Ukraine in July; and most recently, the disappearance of AirAsia Flight 8501 on Sunday as it flew toward Singapore from Surabaya, Indonesia. The airline is Malaysia-based, though the missing aircraft belonged to an affiliated Indonesian company.
今年，马来西亚遭遇了与一连串空难相关的许多难以解答的问题：MH370航班消失；7月，马航客机MH17在乌克兰坠毁；最近，亚洲航空(AirAsia)的QZ8501航班又在上周日从印尼泗水飞往新加坡的途中消失。这家航空公司总部位于马来西亚，不过失踪的飞机为一家印尼附属公司所有。
If all of Flight 8501’s passengers have perished, that would mean the three deadliest aviation disasters of 2014 are all tied to Malaysia.
假如QZ8501航班的乘客全都不幸罹难，那就意味着2014年死难人数最多的三起空难，都与马来西亚有关。
No trace of Flight 8501 had been found by late Monday night, despite two days of searching, with about 30 ships and 15 planes scouring the Java Sea among the islands of Borneo, Sumatra and Java. Bambang Soelistyo, head of the Indonesian National Search and Rescue Agency, said the plane was probably “at the bottom of the sea” and that Indonesia did not have the necessary equipment to search properly for it underwater.
截至周一深夜，QZ8501航班仍然无迹可寻（印尼官方周二已确认救援队于卡里马塔海峡发现该航班残骸及尸体——编注）。搜寻工作已经进行了两天，共有大约30艘船和15架飞机对加里曼丹岛、苏门答腊岛和爪哇岛之间的爪哇海水域进行了仔细搜寻。印尼国家搜救队队长班邦·索里斯托(Bambang Soelistyo)表示，飞机可能已经“沉在海底”，而印尼并没有在水下对其展开适当搜寻的必要设备。
At AirAsia’s hub in Kuala Lumpur on Monday, passengers and relatives of people about to board the airline’s flights to destinations from India to Australia expressed a mix of fatalism and frustration at the lack of answers about the three aviation disasters. They said they suspected they were not being told the whole story by government officials or the news media.
周一，在亚航位于马来西亚吉隆坡的中转枢纽，由于上述三起空难都还没有答案，准备搭乘该公司航班飞往印度和澳大利亚等地的乘客及乘客亲属，既表达了一种宿命论的观点，也表达了沮丧之情。他们说，他们怀疑政府官员和新闻媒体没有把全部信息告诉他们。
Julianna Chong, 19, and her brother Jufri Aminuddin Chong, 21, were seeing their younger sister off. She was bound for Melbourne, Australia, for an extended vacation. Ms. Chong, who studies art, said she was saddened and puzzled by the accidents: “Three times,” she said, “that’s not normal.”
19岁的朱莉安娜·庄(Julianna Chong)和21岁的哥哥朱弗里·阿米努丁·庄(Jufri Aminuddin Chong)来给妹妹送行，后者将前往澳大利亚墨尔本休一个长假。学习艺术的朱莉安娜·庄说，这些空难让她难过。同时，她也感到疑惑：“三次，”她说，“太不正常了。”
Her brother said, “We’re really upset about it, it could be our families,” but he added, “Things happen in waves, you can’t really control it.”
她的哥哥说，“我们真的很不安，这种事情可能会发生在自己家人身上，”但他又说，“事情接连发生，我们也控制不了。”
Outside the AirAsia operations office at the Kuala Lumpur airport, company employees emphasized that the missing flight was operated by an affiliated Indonesian airline that is separate from the Malaysia-based parent. “We in Malaysia are AK, they are QZ,” said one female flight attendant, referring to the code letters used for each carrier’s flights. She declined to give her name, saying that employees had been told not to speak to reporters about the missing plane.
在吉隆坡机场的亚航办事处外，公司员工强调说，失踪客机由印尼公司运营，与位于马来西亚的母公司是分离的。一名女乘务员表示，“马来西亚这边是AK，那边的是QZ。”她指的是两家航空公司的航班代码。这名乘务员拒绝透露姓名，她表示员工被告知，不要接受记者采访讨论失踪飞机的问题。
Yet the two carriers use the same logo and fly out of the same terminal in Kuala Lumpur, where 63 of the 72 flights listed on a status board late Monday evening were AirAsia flights. Tony Fernandes, the Malaysian chief executive officer of the parent company, further demonstrated the close ties between the affiliates when he flew to Surabaya on Monday to meet with families of relatives after visiting the search and rescue operations center in Jakarta.
但这两家公司的标识相同，也从吉隆坡的同一座航站楼起飞。周一晚间，该航站楼的信息栏显示，72个航班中有63个是亚航航班。周一，母公司的马来西亚籍首席执行官托尼∙费尔南德斯(Tony Fernandes)来到雅加达搜救行动中心，随后又飞往泗水，与乘客家属见面，这进一步表明了两家公司间的密切关系。
“My heart bleeds for all the relatives of my crew and our passengers,” Mr. Fernandes said on Twitter on Monday. “Nothing is more important to us.”
“想到我们的机组人员、乘客，以及他们的亲人，我的心就在滴血，”费尔南德斯周一在Twitter上写道。“对于我们来说，没有什么比这还重要。”
And to Malaysian travelers, the fact that Mr. Fernandes’s company owns only 49 percent of the Indonesian affiliate made little difference. “They are all our planes,” said Ramesh Sandra, a 47-year old marketing manager who was on his way to India for a religious pilgrimage.
费尔南德斯的公司只持有印尼公司49%的股份，但这对于马来西亚旅客来说没什么不同。47的市场经理拉梅什·桑德拉(Ramesh Sandra)说，“都是我们的飞机。”桑德拉正要前往印度朝圣。
In one breath, he said the tragedies were “beyond our control” and “God’s grace.” Then he raised questions about the airlines’ decisions to put passengers in harm’s way. Why, he asked, was Flight 17 routed over a war zone in Ukraine? Why did the pilot of flight 8501 fly into bad weather?
同时他还表示，这些悲剧“不受我们的控制”，是“神的旨意”。他后来对航空公司将乘客至于险境的决定提出质疑。他问道，MH17航班为什么非要经过乌克兰战区上空，QZ8501航班为何要在恶劣天气中飞行？
“Three times is terrible,” Mr. Sandra said. “Life is more important than money."
“出三次事故，这太可怕了，”桑德拉说。“生命比金钱重要。”
Ram Karun, 37, an engineer for a food processing plant who was also bound for India on a pilgrimage, traveling barefoot like his companions, said he could not believe what he was hearing in news reports about the three air disasters. He said he thought the government knew more than it was saying.
37岁的拉姆·卡伦(Ram Karun)是一家食品加工厂的工程师，像他的同伴们一样，他也将赤脚前往印度朝圣。他表示自己不相信有关这三次空难的新闻报道。他说，他认为政府有所隐瞒。