SEPANG, Malaysia — The investigation into the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 took another confusing turn on Monday, as the authorities here reversed themselves and offered yet another version of the sequence of events in the crucial minutes before ground controllers lost contact with the jet early on March 8.
马来西亚雪邦——周一，针对马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)370航班失联事件的调查出现了另一个令人困惑的转变，马来西亚当局推翻了自身的说法，提供了另一个版本的事件顺序，所涉时间则是地面控制3月8日凌晨与飞机失去联系前的关键几分钟。
As the search for the missing Boeing 777 jet stretched into a 10th day, two of the nations helping in the hunt, Australia and Indonesia, agreed to divide between them a vast area of the southeastern Indian Ocean, with Indonesia focusing on equatorial waters and Australia beginning to search farther south for traces of the aircraft. To the north, China and Kazakhstan checked their radar records and tried to figure out whether the jet could have landed somewhere on their soil.
针对失联波音777飞机的搜索行动进入第十天之际，参与行动的两个国家——澳大利亚和印度尼西亚——同意在印度洋东南部的广阔区域里分头搜寻，印度尼西亚主要在赤道水域搜寻，澳大利亚则开始在更南边的水域寻找这架飞机的踪迹。在北部，中国和哈萨克斯坦核查了各自的雷达数据，试图确定飞机是否降落在了本国的某个地方。
The Malaysian authorities said on Monday that the plane’s first officer — the co-pilot — was the last person in the cockpit to speak to ground control. But the government added to the confusion about what had happened on the plane by that time, withdrawing its assertion that a crucial communications system had already been disabled when the co-pilot spoke.
马来西亚当局周一表示，航班的副机长是驾驶舱中最后一个与地面控制对话的人。然而，政府收回了之前的说法，即副机长说话时一个重要的通讯系统已被关闭，此举增添了外界对飞机当时状况的困惑。
Hishammuddin Hussein, Malaysia’s defense minister and acting transportation minister, had made that assertion on Sunday, saying that the aircraft’s Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System, or Acars, was disabled at 1:07 a.m. Saturday, well before the co-pilot’s verbal signoff. That appeared to point to possible complicity of the pilots in the plane’s disappearance.
马来西亚国防部长兼代理交通部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)上周日提出了前述说法，称飞机的通信寻址与报告系统（Aircraft Communication Addressing and ReportingSystem，简称Acars）于周六凌晨1:07被关闭，时间远在副机长发送语音信息之前。这似乎说明，飞机失联是两名飞行员相互串通的结果。
But Ahmad Jauhari Yahya, the chief executive of Malaysia Airlines, said at a news conference early Monday evening that the Acars system had worked normally at 1:07 but then failed to send its next regularly scheduled update at 1:37 a.m., and could have been disabled at any point between those two times. “We don’t know when the Acars system was switched off,” he said.
然而，马航首席执行官阿迈德·焦哈里·叶哈亚(Ahmad Jauhari Yahya)在周一傍晚的新闻发布会上表示，飞机的Acars系统在凌晨1:07正常工作，1:37却没有发送下一个定时更新信号，它可能在这两个时间点之间的任何时间被关闭。他说，“我们不知道Acars系统被关闭的时间。”
Mr. Ahmad Jauhari said the co-pilot’s verbal signoff was given by radio at 1:19 a.m., and the aircraft’s transponder, which communicates with ground-based radar, ceased working about two minutes later.
阿迈德·焦哈里表示，副机长在凌晨1:19通过无线电发送了语音信息，大约两分钟之后，负责与地面雷达联络的飞机应答器停止了工作。
The new account appeared to reopen the possibility that the aircraft was operating normally until 1:21 a.m., and that the two communications systems failed or were deactivated at the same time, not at separate points. That could raise additional questions about whether the plane was deliberately diverted, or experienced mechanical or electrical difficulties that crippled its communications and resulted in its flying an erratic course. 
新的说法似乎再次提出了这样一种可能，即飞机一直正常运行到了凌晨1:21，两个通讯系统在同一时间失灵或关闭，并不是先后发生。这可能引发其他疑问，即飞机究竟是故意改变航向，还是遭遇了机械或电力故障，导致通讯系统失效，飞机按照古怪航线飞行。
Though the possibility of an accident has not been excluded, the strong consensus among Malaysian and foreign experts involved in the investigation remains that deliberate action by someone on board was the most likely explanation for the disappearance, according to a person involved in the investigation. This person, who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss publicly a matter that has become a criminal case, said investigators believed there were too many suspicious coincidences for the disappearance to have been entirely due to an accident.
一名参与调查的人士表示，虽然目前尚未排除发生事故的可能性，参与调查的马来西亚和他国专家却普遍确信，对于此次飞机失踪事件，可能性最大的解释仍然是机上某人的故意行为。此人无权公开讨论已成为刑事案件的事件，因此坚持要求匿名。此人称，调查人员认为，可疑的巧合实在太多，飞机的失踪不可能完全出于意外。
Standing next to Mr. Ahmad Jauhari at the news conference, Mr. Hishammuddin waved off numerous questions about why he had said a day earlier that Acars had been disabled at 1:07 a.m. “What I said yesterday was based on fact, corroborated and verified,” he said. In response to another question, he said that uncertainty about the chronology underlined the importance of finding the aircraft and its data recorders.
由于希沙姆丁曾表示Acars在凌晨1:07失灵，人们便在第二天的新闻发布会上提出了大量问题，问他为什么这么说。站在阿迈德·焦哈里旁边的希沙姆丁对这些问题颇为不屑。他说，“我昨天的说法是以经过验证的事实为基础的。”回答另一个问题时，他表示，对于事情顺序的不确定状态，正好突显了找到飞机及其数据记录器的重要性。
After the last voice contact with the ground, radar data indicates that the aircraft turned off its planned flight path northeastward toward Beijing, and had headed west, back across the Malay Peninsula while rising in altitude and falling again, and then flew out over the Strait of Malacca and beyond, out of radar range, to an unknown location.
雷达数据显示，最后一次与地面通话之后，原计划向东北飞往北京的飞机改变了路线，朝西边飞去，在飞越马来半岛时提高了海拔，然后又下降，再后来便飞到马六甲海峡上空，超出了雷达的覆盖范围，不知道去了哪里。
After the Acars system, the transponder and voice radio contact had all ceased, one device on the plane kept trying to communicate, a satellite transmission device usually used for sending maintenance data. That device kept sending occasional brief signals for several hours after all other contact was lost, Malaysian authorities say; the last signal received from that device indicated that the plane was on or near one of two broad arcs of the earth’s surface. One extends over Indonesia and remote areas of the southern Indian Ocean, the other over the Asian land mass, through western and southwestern China, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and northern Laos.
飞机上的Acars系统、应答器和无线电通讯全部关闭以后，还有一个设备——一种通常用来发送维修数据的卫星传输设备——仍在尝试传输信息。马来官方称，在其他联络方式全部中断后，该设备仍然在不时发送简短讯号，时间长达数小时；来自这个设备的最后信号表明，飞机应该处于地球表面两条漫长的弧线上，或者在弧线附近。其中一条弧线覆盖了印尼及南印度洋的偏远地区；另一条则跨越亚洲大陆，穿越了中国的西部和西南部、吉尔吉斯斯坦、哈萨克斯坦和老挝北部。
By Monday, 26 nations were involved in searching those two arcs.
截至周一，参与搜索这两个弧线区域的国家已达26个。
Malaysia’s Transport Ministry also said that three civil aviation investigators had arrived from France to share expertise gained from the search for Air France Flight 447, which disappeared nearly five years ago off the coast of Brazil. Searchers needed almost two years to find the Air France jet, an Airbus A330, on the floor of the Atlantic Ocean.
马来西亚交通部还表示，三名民用航空调查人员已从法国来到马来西亚，分享通过搜寻法航(Air France)447航班得来的经验。将近五年前，法航447消失在了巴西海岸附近。调查人员花了近两年的时间才在大西洋底找到了法航的这架空客A330。
Investigators had an advantage in that case, because they had found more than 3,000 pieces of debris and 50 bodies floating in the ocean in the days and weeks immediately after the crash, giving them a rough sense of where the plane had entered the water. By contrast, there are still few clues to where the Malaysia Airlines jetliner finally came down.
在那起事件中，调查人员拥有一个有利条件，因为他们在飞机失事后的数天和数周内迅速找到了漂在海上的3000多块残片，还有50多具尸体。这一来，他们就能大致判断飞机坠海的地点。相比之下，迄今仍然没有什么线索能表明马航的这架飞机最终降落在哪里。