WHEN mass murderers took over the cockpits of four American airliners on Sept. 11, 2001, one of the first things they did was turn off the transponders, so the planes would not register properly on civilian radar.
2001年9月11日，当杀伤无数的凶手们控制了四架美国大型客机的驾驶舱时，他们首先做的事情，就包括关闭应答器，这样飞机就不会正确地显示在民用雷达上。
A few months later, the Council on Foreign Relations published a book, “How Did This Happen?” about the mistakes leading to that awful day. I wrote the aviation security chapter, which highlighted vulnerabilities in the way airliner transponders operate.
几个月后，对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)出版了一本名为《何以至此？》(How Did This Happen?)的书，主题是导致那可怕一天的种种失误。关于航空安全的章节由我撰写，其中突出了客机应答器操作方式上的各种薄弱环节。
If the transponders had not gone silent on 9/11, air traffic controllers would have quickly realized that two jetliners en route to Los Angeles had made dramatic course changes and were bound straight for Manhattan. Instead, controllers lost precious time trying to figure out where the aircraft were.
假如9·11那天应答器没有被关闭，空管人员将会迅速意识到，飞往洛杉矶途中的两架客机急剧转向，目标直指曼哈顿。但事实是，空管员因为试图搞清楚飞机到底在哪儿而浪费了宝贵的时间。
At the time, I would have bet my life’s savings that the transponder, which broadcasts an aircraft’s location and identity, would be re-engineered to prevent hijackers from turning such units off. But nothing was done. Almost 13 years later, Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 sparked a lengthy worldwide search when, it appears, another transponder was turned off.
那时候，我会押上身家性命打赌，传输飞机位置与身份信息的应答器会被重新设计，以防止劫机者关闭这样的设备。然而一切照旧。近13年后，马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班引发了全球范围内的长时间搜寻。这一次，似乎又是应答器被关闭。
The issue today is exactly as it was on 9/11. Pilots like their locations to be known — for ground assistance, and because the transponder warns other nearby planes of their course and altitude. Only a hijacker at the controls of an aircraft would want the transponder silent.
今天的问题与9·11那天一模一样。驾驶员希望自己的位置为外界所知，不仅是为了获得地面协助，还因为应答器向附近的飞机发出航向和高度提醒。只有控制飞行的劫机者才会想要应答器失灵。
Flight 370 was not unique: Most of the world’s jetliners have transponders that can be turned off. On the 777-200, the type of plane used on the flight, there’s a simple rotary switch near the first officer’s left hand. All someone has to do to turn the transponder off is rotate the dial.
370航班并不是特例：世界上多数客机的应答器可以被关掉。这趟航班采用的是777-200机型，副驾驶的左手边有一个简单的旋转开关。要想关闭应答器，只需旋转控制开关。
Of course, transponders aren’t the only way to detect a plane: There’s always radar. In the movies, radar screens show incredible detail about everything. In real life, radar is easily confused, doesn’t see small planes, and may have trouble determining altitudes. Transponders solve this by reporting an aircraft’s altitude, speed, directional heading and identification code to air traffic controllers and nearby aircraft, using an electronic format that syncs with radar. And the identification codes tell controllers which blip is which flight, something radar has no way to detect.
当然，应答器并非监测飞机的唯一方式：雷达总还是有的。在电影中，雷达屏幕会以难以置信的细节展示所有东西。但在现实生活里，雷达很容易糊涂、察觉不到小型机，或许还难以辨别高度。应答器采用一种与雷达同步的电子格式，向空管员和附近的飞行器报告飞机的高度、速度、航向和识别码，从而解决了这一问题。识别码还告诉空管员，哪个光点是哪架航班。这是雷达本身绝无可能探测出来的事情。
Some military radars can provide Hollywood-style detail, but military radar is not usually watching civilian flights, and when it is, it needs the transponder code to know what it’s looking at. One reason it took nearly a week for American intelligence to conclude that Flight 370 had gone far off course is that analysts had to pore over reams of raw data trying to figure out which tracks were from that particular jet.
一些军用雷达可以提供好莱坞式的细节，但军用雷达通常不监控民用航班，而且就算监控，也需要应答器识别码来了解到底看的是什么。美国情报界之所以花了近一周时间才得出370航班偏离航道的结论，其中一个原因就是，分析人员不得不仔细筛查大量的原始数据，努力分辨哪些记录来自这架特定的飞机。
Why is there a transponder switch in the first place? Until recently, transponders had to be off when a plane was on the ground, to avoid sending signals that disrupted airport radar. The designs for some private aircraft — but not yet the large commercial planes — deal with this by using automated transponders that turn on when the planes become airborne, then turn off when they slow to taxi speed.
为什么会有应答器开关这种东西存在？直到不久之前，当飞机位于地面上时，应答器都必须处于关闭状态，以免它发送信号干扰机场的雷达。自动应答器可以解决这个问题，它在飞机升空时打开，在它们减慢到滑行速度时关闭，但这种为一些私人飞机进行的设计尚未运用到大型商业飞机上。
Lately, major airports have installed ground-scanning radars that don’t get confused by transponders on taxiways. Large jetliners like the 777 typically operate from such airports, and when they do, they never have a reason to switch the transponder off.
近来，各大机场安装了地面扫描雷达，它们不会被滑行道上的应答器所干扰。像777这样的大型客机也在这些机场里起落，当它们位于这些机场内时，完全没有关闭应答器的必要。
The transponder’s off switch is a vestige of an earlier era, before reliable chip-based electronics. Older model transponders sometimes sent out spurious altitude readings. “Air traffic control would call and tell you to ‘cycle’ the transponder,” meaning switch it off and then back on in a reset sequence, noted Patrick Smith, a veteran pilot and the author of the 2012 book about air travel, “Cockpit Confidential.”
应答器的关闭开关是较早时期的遗迹，当时基于芯片的电子产品还不太可靠。型号比较老的应答器有时会发出虚假的高度读数。资深飞行员帕特里克·史密斯(Patrick Smith)说，“空中交通管制人员会呼叫你，让你‘循环’应答器，”意即将其关闭然后再打开，进行复位操作。史密斯在2012年出版了一本关于航空旅行的书，名为《驾驶舱机密》(Cockpit Confidential)。
In case cycling does not correct the fault, all jetliners have backup transponders. Flight 370 had a backup transponder — but as with most such units, someone in the cockpit must switch the backup on. No one did that on Flight 370.
万一“循环”无法清除故障，所有的客机都有备用应答器。370航班有一个备用应答器——但与大多数这样的飞机一样，必须有人在驾驶舱内把备用应答器打开才行。而在370航班上没有人这样做。
The solution is a location-broadcasting system that the flight crew cannot switch off. Over the next few years, much of the world plans to adopt an aviation tracking standard called ADS-B, which should make it harder for a plane to stop reporting its position. Automated transponders should be part of that transition.
这个问题的解决方案，是使用机组人员无法关闭的系统来发送位置信息。在接下来的几年中，全球大部分地区都计划采用名为ADS-B的航空跟踪标准，这应该增加飞机停止报告位置的难度。自动应答器理应是这一转变的组成部分。