Based on a popular series of racing-themed video games, “Need for Speed” sums up its appeal in the title. An energetic, unpretentious B movie — the kind best seen at a drive-in like the one in an early scene — it is devoted, above all, to the delivery of visceral, kinetic excitement. In the game, you are at the wheel. Watching other people drive is never as much fun, so the movie, directed by Scott Waugh from a script by George Gatins, supplies a few passenger seat distractions. In addition to velocity, you may need some emotion.
《极品飞车》(Need for Speed)是根据一款流行竞技类系列游戏改编的，影片名字点出了它的魅力所在。这是一部充满活力、朴实真诚的B级片——是那种最适合在汽车影院看的影片，本片刚开始也有汽车影院的镜头——最重要的是，它提供那种发自内心、充满动感的兴奋刺激。游戏中是由玩家操纵方向盘，不过看其他人开车就不是那么有趣，所以这部由斯科特·沃(Scott Waugh)导演，乔治·盖汀斯(George Gatins)编剧的影片就提供了一点乘客席上的消遣。除了体验速度，你或许还需要来点感情。
So “Need for Speed” opens up a few generic cans of feeling, the ones labeled Betrayal and Honor. It stirs in characters a bit less distinctive than the average game avatar — a blue-eyed hero, a dark-haired villain, a few funny sidekicks, a girl — and sets them off in pursuit of something vaguely archetypal. “This is about much more than racing!” someone exclaims. But also much less.
《极品飞车》一开始就使用了几个典型的感情套路，就是上面标记着“背叛与忠诚”的那些。它为角色添加的特征比一般游戏形象还要没个性——一个蓝眼睛的英雄、一个黑头发的恶棍、几个搞笑的配角、一个姑娘，然后让他们去吻合某种模糊的原型。“这意义已经超出了赛车，”一个人物解释道。但某种意义上也和赛车关系不大。
Anyway, the driving is fun to watch, though the 3-D does not add much to the immediacy. The three big races that structure the story are less inventive than the wild traffic violations that propel the hero and his pals from Mount Kisco, N.Y., to San Francisco, where a super-important illegal race called the De Leon is scheduled to take place.
不管怎样，开车的场面还是挺有意思的，尽管3-D技术并没增添多少直接的感觉。故事主要由三场大型赛车构成，不算特别独出心裁，更精彩的是主人公和他的伙伴们从纽约的基斯科赶往旧金山，参加极其重要的德里昂地下赛车大赛，一路上疯狂地违反交通规则。
The De Leon’s mastermind is a mysterious, talkative fellow known as the Monarch, an Internet phenomenon played with nutty exuberance by Michael Keaton. Exuberance is not a quality associated with Tobey Marshall (Aaron Paul, best known for his role in AMC’s “Breaking Bad”), a Mount Kisco mechanic who hopes to use the De Leon to settle some scores. A local hot shot named Dino Brewster (Dominic Cooper) stole Tobey’s girlfriend, Anita (Dakota Johnson), and then did some even worse stuff, stuff that wrecked Tobey’s business, landed him in jail and cost the life of one of his friends. Tobey glowers and sighs and speaks in a low, sorrowful rasp.
“德·里昂”大赛的策划者是个神秘健谈的家伙，被称为“君主”，是互联网名人，被迈克尔·基顿(Michael Keaton)诠释得古怪而欢乐。不过托比·马歇尔(Tobey Marshall)就没这么欢乐了，因AMC台的《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)而成名的亚伦·保罗(Aaron Paul)出演了这个角色，他是一个来自基斯科山的机械师，希望借德里昂大赛解决一些旧账。当地红人迪诺·布罗斯塔（Dino Brewster，多米尼克·库珀[Dominic Cooper]）饰演，抢了托比的的女朋友安妮塔（达科塔·约翰逊[Dakota Johnson]饰演），然后有些更糟糕的事情发生了，彻底毁了托比的生意，让他锒铛入狱，还有一个朋友也因此丧命。托比怒目而视，不住叹息，用低沉、悲伤的粗声说话。
Assisting Tobey in his quest for payback — for vindication, redemption and the keys to a million-dollar European car — are (in order of importance) a lovingly modified silver Mustang, a wisecracking friend who can fly a plane (Scott Mescudi), two other wisecracking friends who can do other things (Rami Malek and Ramon Rodriguez) and Julia (Imogen Poots), a woman who knows something about cars. Not that much, maybe, and she’s only allowed to drive once, but Ms. Poots is a good sport and a deft enough actress to find the balance of silliness and gravity that the movie requires.
托比决心复仇——为了证明自己无辜，为了补救，也为了得到一辆价值百万美元的欧洲车——帮助他的有（按重要程度排列）一辆精心改装的银色野马福特车、一个爱说俏皮话会开飞机的朋友（斯科特·梅斯库迪[Scott Mescudi]饰）、另外两个爱说俏皮话会干其他事的朋友（雷米·马雷克[Rami Malek]和雷蒙·罗德里格兹[Ramon Rodriguez]饰），以及茱莉亚（伊莫琴·普茨[Imogen Poots]饰），一个对汽车有所了解的女人。不过她对汽车的了解或许不是很多，在片中只开过一次车。但普茨身手矫健，也是个老练的演员，足以在影片所需的愚蠢与庄重之间找到平衡。
“Need for Speed” is dumb and loud and sometimes technically impressive, which means that it is successful on its own terms. Whether it cashes in on the popularity of the games or of the much stronger and more imaginative “Fast & Furious” franchise, is a potentially interesting question but not really any of my business. I’m just along for the ride.
《极品飞车》沉闷、吵闹，在技术上不时有闪光之处，也就是说它在自己的类型中还算成功。它是不是利用游戏的走红来赚钱？它是不是比《速度与激情》(Fast & Furious)系列更精彩？这可能是个很有趣的问题，但其实根本不关我的事。我只是来凑热闹的。