Some believe eating human placenta — raw, cooked, or dried out, pulverized and encapsulated — has health benefits. But a review of the handful of studies on the subject has found no evidence that eating placenta is good for you.
一些人相信食用人类胎盘——无论是生吃、熟吃或是经过干燥、粉碎然后封装入胶囊来吃——有益于健康。但是，在综述了关于该问题的屈指可数的几项研究后，科学家们并未发现任何证据能表明食用胎盘的益处。
Placenta consumption has been recommended for pain reduction, strengthening the immune system, better maternal bonding, faster uterine recovery, and for the prevention of postpartum depression, sleep disorders and menstrual disorders.
食用胎盘的建议久已有之，号称它可以减少疼痛，增强免疫系统，改善母婴联结，加快子宫恢复，并预防产后抑郁症、睡眠障碍和月经紊乱等。
Researchers, writing in Archives of Women’s Mental Health, reviewed 10 studies, four human and six animal. One examined the claim that consuming encapsulated placenta improves lactation, but the study did not adhere to current scientific standards, and no conclusions could be drawn. Neither animal nor human studies found good evidence for pain relief. There are no randomized, placebo-controlled trials of placenta consumption.
研究人员在《妇女精神卫生文献》杂志(Archives of Women’s Mental Health)上撰文称，他们综述了10项研究，其中4项为人类研究，6项为动物研究。一项研究探讨了“食用胎盘胶囊可改善泌乳”的说法，但该研究既没有遵循当前的科学标准，也没有得出任何结论。无论是动物还是人类研究提供的证据均不足以证实其缓解疼痛的效果。关于食用胎盘，尚无随机、安慰剂对照试验。
Although the potential adverse effects of eating placenta are not known, the placenta is not sterile, and several studies found that the organ was contaminated with bacteria as well as selenium, cadmium, mercury and lead.
虽然目前尚不清楚食用胎盘是否存在潜在的不利影响，但胎盘本身并不是无菌的，也曾有若干研究发现该器官受到了细菌以及硒、镉、汞和铅的污染。
“This is an unregulated practice with no evidence-based research about its risks and benefits,” said the lead author, Dr. Crystal T. Clark, an assistant professor of psychiatry at Northwestern. “It should certainly not be used in place of other treatments for postpartum depression or other postpartum complications until we have further research about its benefits.”
“这是一种不规范的做法，其风险和收益都尚未经过循证研究，”该研究的主要作者，西北大学(Northwestern)的精神病学助理教授克里斯特尔·T·克拉克(Crystal T. Clark)博士说。“在进一步研究其效益之前，显然不应用其替代其他疗法来治疗产后抑郁症或其他并发症。”