SINGAPORE — The mourners who filed past the gates of the government building where the body of Lee Kuan Yew, who died on Monday, was being kept spoke about him with a zeal and adoration usually reserved for candidates for sainthood.
新加坡——悼念者列队穿过存放着李光耀(Lee Kuan Yew)遗体的政府大楼的入口。他们说起周一辞世的李光耀时显露出的那种热忱和崇敬，通常只会在谈到有资格封圣的人选时才会有。
“We are deeply in debt to him,” said Irene Yeo, a saleswoman who brought a bouquet of flowers, listing the reasons for her gratitude to the man who founded modern Singapore: “My life, my housing, my family, the good environment, the good transportation and medical care.”
“我们亏欠他很多，”女销售伊雷妮·杨(Irene Yeo)带来了一束花，列举了自己对这位创建了现代新加坡的人物心怀感激的原因：“我的生活、住房、家庭、良好的环境、出色的交通和医疗保健。”
Vasuki Thirupathi, an engineer from India who worked in Singapore two decades ago and was back on a visit, said he sobbed uncontrollably for two minutes when he heard the news.
二十年前，来自印度的工程师瓦苏吉·蒂鲁帕蒂(Vasuki Thirupathi)曾在新加坡工作。故地重游的他说，听到消息时，自己控制不住地啜泣了两分钟。
“He is my idol, and not a day passes without my saying it,” Mr. Thirupathi said. “Security, law and order, truth, honesty — all of this requires vision and boils down to leadership.”
“他是我的偶像，我没有哪天不这么说，”蒂鲁帕蒂表示。“安全、法治、求真、诚信——所有这些都需要领导人的远见卓识。”
Mr. Lee led Singapore from 1959 until 1990, an era in which it rose “From Third World to First,” as he titled his 2000 book on the former British colony’s modern history.
从1959年到1990年，李光耀一直担任新加坡领导人。在此时期，新加坡实现了“从第三世界到第一世界”的飞跃。这也是他在2000年出版的一本回忆录的书名。该书讲述了曾为英国殖民地的新加坡的近代史。
For older Singaporeans, the roots of the respect for Mr. Lee were intertwined with their rise from poverty.
对上了年纪的新加坡人来说，尊敬李光耀的根源，与他们摆脱贫困的轨迹交织在一起。
Zhuang Yaying, a 79-year-old who paid her respects on Monday, spoke of living in a thatched-roof house when she was young. “Singapore is like heaven now,” she said, citing “proper” sidewalks and the ubiquitous apartment complexes.
周一当天，79岁的庄亚英（音）表达了自己的哀思。她自称小时候住在茅草房。“新加坡现在就像天堂，”她说，有“完善”的人行道，到处都是公寓楼。
Under Mr. Lee’s leadership, Singapore became a highly manicured metropolis, a magnet for the wealth of elites in neighboring countries and a financial hub in Southeast Asia. (To impress the parade of Western executives who came to meet him, Mr. Lee personally made sure that the roads from the airport to downtown hotels were neat and verdant.)
在李光耀的领导下，新加坡变成了一座井井有条的大都市，吸引着邻国精英阶层的财富，成为了东南亚的金融中心。（为了打动前来与他会面的众多西方高管，李光耀亲自过问，保证了从机场到市区酒店的公路整洁光鲜、绿树成荫。）
Mourners shrugged off the darker side of Mr. Lee’s tenure, especially the relentless prosecutions of his political opponents.
对于李光耀当政期间不那么光彩的一面，特别是残酷迫害政敌，悼念者并未理会。
Yeo Siew Siang, 65, a former Singaporean Army colonel who said he remembered pigs roaming in a neighborhood now filled with cafes, addressed the criticism of the stifling of political dissent, saying, “You can’t make an omelet without breaking eggs.”
65岁的杨寿祥（音）是新加坡陆军的一名退役上校。他说自己记忆中曾经到处是猪跑的一个地区，现在开满了咖啡馆。对于李光耀镇压政治异见人士的批评，他说，“有得必有失。”
The grieving was by no means restricted to older Singaporeans.
这股悲痛之情决不仅限于上了年纪的新加坡人。
Curren Seow, 30, who works at Facebook, said that his parents had a picture of Mr. Lee hanging in their home and that he was “part of the family.”
30岁的柯伦·邵在Facebook工作。他说自己的父母在家里挂着一幅李光耀的画像，并称他是“家庭的一部分”。
Foo Ceyu, 35, a marketing manager, said he had been crying the whole day. “In Chinese, there’s an idiom saying we need to remember the source of our water, i.e., we have to be grateful,” he said.
35岁的营销经理冯策瑜（音）表示，自己哭了一整天。“华语里有句话叫饮水思源，也就是说我们要感恩，”他说。
In a testament to the orderly city-state that Mr. Lee built, mourners in Singapore were shepherded through a meticulously organized grieving line. Ushers with black armbands screened flowers using metal-detecting wands and guided mourners to tables where pens and index cards were neatly laid out so they could write their condolences. White tents shielded them from the sun.
在新加坡，悼念者被引导着排成了一条无比整齐的致哀队伍，这正是李光耀建立的这个井然有序的城市国家的写照。戴着黑袖章的引导员用金属探测棒检查花束，并将前来悼念的人引至桌旁。那里整齐地摆放着笔和卡片，可以供人写下自己的慰唁。头顶撑起了白色帐篷，让人群免于太阳的烤晒。
Yet amid the grief there was also a sense that Singapore was moving on, even as plans were being made for the funeral on Sunday. There were far more people browsing their smartphones at cafes and meeting friends in a nearby shopping mall than mourners in the grieving line.
然而，在周日的葬礼仍在筹备的同时，在悲伤之余，可以感受到新加坡人的生活还在继续。在咖啡馆浏览手机和在附近的购物中心会友的人，要比排队的悼念者多出许多。
Singapore’s current prime minister, Lee Hsien Loong, one of Lee Kuan Yew’s sons, said during a televised address Monday morning that his father “gave of himself, in full measure, to Singapore.”
李光耀之子、新加坡现任总理李显龙(Lee Hsien Loong)周一上午通过电视发表演讲，表示父亲“把自己毫无保留地奉献给了新加坡”。
He continued: “As he himself put it towards the end of his life: ‘I have spent my life, so much of it, building up this country. There is nothing more that I need to do. At the end of the day, what have I got? A successful Singapore. What have I given up? My life.’ ”
他还表示：“正如他本人晚年所说：‘我把我的生命，如此多的时间，用来建设这个国家。除此之外，我不需要再做任何事。到了最后，我得到了什么？一个成功的新加坡。我又付出了什么？我的一生。’”
Praise for Mr. Lee, who was 91, poured in from around the globe. In a statement, President Obama called Mr. Lee “a true giant of history” and “a visionary who led his country from Singapore’s independence in 1965 to build one of the most prosperous countries in the world today.”
李光耀享年91岁，身后对他的赞美从世界各地涌来。奥巴马总统发表声明称，李光耀是“一位真正的历史巨人”，以及“一个有远见卓识的人，带领自己的国家，从1965年新加坡独立开始，把它打造为当今世界最繁荣的国家之一。”