Across my desk recently came a reissue of the 1964 classic “The Drinking Man’s Diet,” a cute little volume that maintains that if you drink a bit you’ll lose weight. Counterintuitive, since one of the things we think we know about alcohol is that it provides truly empty calories, which generally speaking cause weight gain (see, for example, soda).
我的案头最近放着一本再版的经典之作《嗜酒男人的日常饮食》(The Drinking Man’s Diet)，这本惹人喜爱的小书最初面世是在1964年。书里说，如果喝点小酒，体重是会减轻的。听起来似乎有悖常理，因为我们以为自己对酒精了解的一件事情是：它给我们提供的其实是空热量，一般来说会导致体重增加（参见碳酸饮料的例子）。
With seven calories per gram, alcohol is way more caloric than sugar and other carbs, all of which contain four, and less so than fat (nine), but those in alcohol are metabolized differently, and some studies have shown that moderate drinkers ingesting the same level of calories as non-drinkers (and heavy drinkers) may gain less weight over time. Moderate levels of alcohol may also protect against heart disease.
酒精的卡路里含量（每克7卡）远高于糖类等碳水化合物（每克4卡），同时又远低于脂肪（每克9卡）。不过，酒精所含的热量在人体中的代谢方式是不同的；而且有研究表明，在摄入的热量水平相当的情况下，长期来看，适度饮酒的人增加的体重，可能低于不饮酒的人和大量饮酒的人。适度饮酒或许还可以预防心脏病。
Life is complicated, and drinking for health is a lame rationalization, but drinking itself... well, we do it because we like it. Medical discussions about drinking rarely touch on hangovers, an important consequence for serious drinkers, which I’ve had more times than I’d like to think about. (Although I did swear that my most recent hangover would be my last, and given that that was more than six weeks ago, I’d say I’m doing pretty well.) The point is that if we’re reasonably responsible individuals, these are private matters whose consequences are borne by ourselves.
生活很复杂，为了健康而喝酒是一个站不住脚的理由，不过喝酒本身嘛……这么说吧，我们喝酒是因为我们喜欢。有关饮酒的医学讨论很少触及宿醉，它是重度饮酒者所要面对的一个重要后果。我就曾宿醉过，次数多到我都不愿意去回想。（但我发过誓，上一次宿醉是我的最后一次。鉴于那已经是六周以前的事了，我必须说我做得相当不错。）不过重点是，如果我们的责任感还说得过去，就得为一些私人的事情承担后果。
We drink because we want to, not because it’s good for us. Whether you believe that alcohol is proof that God loves us and wants us to be happy (a paraphrase of a quote usually attributed to Ben Franklin) or that God has nothing to do with this, it’s clear that alcohol can bring both joy and pain.
我们喝酒是因为我们想喝，不是因为喝酒有好处。不论你认为酒精的存在说明上帝爱我们、想让我们快乐（我改编了一句通常认为出自本杰明·富兰克林[Ben Franklin]之口的名言），还是觉得上帝跟喝酒毫无关系，有一点都很清楚：酒精既能带给我们欢愉，又能带给我们痛苦。
This is also true of many other things in life, but with alcohol, many of us forgive the self-indulgence. That’s almost official policy, in one way: A bottle of soda has a nutrition label; a bottle of vodka does not. These are calories you’re probably not counting. (If you want to drink “light,” calorie-wise, drink straight booze rather than mixed drinks, wine or beer.) Still, we feel guilty: Two-thirds of us drink, and many of us either underestimate the amount we do or actually lie about it. In Britain, for example, drinking reported to health professionals accounts for only about 60 percent of the alcohol sold. I lie to my doctors about drinking, because by official standards I drink too much and I don’t want to be scolded.
生活中的其他许多事物也是如此，但喝酒的时候，我们很多人都会原谅自己的放纵。在某种程度上，这几乎是通行的做法：碳酸饮料的瓶子上印有营养成分标签，伏特加上却没有。你喝下去的酒，可能没有计算卡路里总量。（如果想喝“轻一点的酒”，以卡路里计算，直接喝烈酒比喝调制酒、葡萄酒、啤酒都好。）但我们还是会有罪恶感：我们当中三分之二的人会喝酒，不少人要么对自己的饮酒量估计不足，要么就是在这方面撒了谎。举个例子，在英国，透露给医疗人员的饮酒量仅有酒类销量的60%左右。我自己就会在喝酒这件事上跟医生撒谎，因为按照正式的标准我喝得太多了，但又不想受到训斥。
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says that men drink too much when we consume 15 “drinks” a week (a drink is a 5-ounce glass of wine, a shot of spirits or a beer); women get to have only 8. (Women generally weigh less than men, and alcohol may have more ill effects on women.) You also drink too much if you consume five drinks within three hours; that’s a binge. And, according to the C.D.C., one drink is one too many for people under 21 years of age. Which is absurd, even if it’s the law.
疾病预防与控制中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)称，男性每周摄入15标准杯的酒，就属于过量饮酒（一个标准杯相当于：一杯容积为五盎司的葡萄酒、一小杯烈酒，或者一瓶啤酒）；而女性每周摄入八个标准杯就算过量（女性的体重一般比男性轻，酒精对女性的负面作用可能更大）。如果你在三小时之内喝了五杯酒，当然也属于过量；那就算是狂饮了。疾控中心还称，对于21岁以下的人来说，喝一杯也太多。尽管这被写进了法律，但实在是荒谬。
The C.D.C. flatly says drinking too much is “dangerous,” which is pretty vague, and can “lead to heart disease, breast cancer, sexually transmitted diseases, unintended pregnancy, fetal alcohol spectrum disorders, sudden infant death syndrome, motor-vehicle crashes, and violence.”
疾控中心还断然宣称，过量饮酒是“危险”行为，用词相当模糊，而且可能“引发心脏病、乳腺癌、性传播疾病、意外怀孕、胎儿酒精综合征、婴儿猝死综合征、机动车事故和暴力活动”。
Many of these dangerous effects are indirect and can be mitigated: If you don’t have sex or get into a car after drinking, you can’t possibly get pregnant or in a car accident. (One thing about drinking alcohol, though: It can cause bad judgment.) The more direct ones, like heart disease and breast cancer, have so many risk factors that drinking may perhaps be discounted, especially in moderation. And there’s evidence that drinking “the right amount” — which is less than “too much” — can be good for you. But that amount varies wildly from one individual to the next, and for most people the safest amount of alcohol is probably, rationally, zero. So it’s crazy to say, as people do, “I drink red wine because it’s better for you than white,” because mostly people drink to get buzzed, or drunk, because bad judgment is a release or fun or both.
上述许多危险后果并不是直接由饮酒造成的，而且也可以避免：如果你喝完酒没有发生性行为也没有开车，你就不可能怀孕或者遭遇车祸。（不过，饮酒确实会让你丧失清醒。）而那些较为直接的影响，比如心脏病和乳腺癌，有太多诱因，饮酒的影响可能被夸大了，适量饮酒就更不会引发这些后果了。有证据显示，“适量饮酒”——也就是低于“过量”的水平——可能对人体有益。但适量究竟是多少，不同人之间有很大的差异，对于大多数人来说，最安全的饮酒量可能是零，这很合理。所以，如果一个人说，“我喝红葡萄酒是因为它比白葡萄酒更有益健康，”这就很可笑，因为多数人喝酒是为了感到愉快或者是喝醉，因为丧失清醒是一种释放，或者一种快乐，或者兼而有之。