Julia Child, goddess of fat, is beaming somewhere. Butter is back, and when you’re looking for a few chunks of pork for a stew, you can resume searching for the best pieces — the ones with the most fat. Eventually, your friends will stop glaring at you as if you’re trying to kill them.
脂肪女神朱丽叶·查尔德(Julia Child)正在某处微笑。黄油又流行起来了，而且你在挑选几块用来炖的猪肉时，又可以开始寻找最棒的那种，也就是肥肉最多的那种了。最后，朋友们也不再会用“你想害死我们”的眼神盯着你看了。
That the worm is turning became increasingly evident a couple of weeks ago, when a meta-analysis published in the journal Annals of Internal Medicine found that there’s just no evidence to support the notion that saturated fat increases the risk of heart disease. (In fact, there’s some evidence that a lack of saturated fat may be damaging.) The researchers looked at 72 different studies and, as usual, said more work — including more clinical studies — is needed. For sure. But the days of skinless chicken breasts and tubs of I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter may finally be drawing to a close.
两周前，脂肪的名声出现大逆转的趋势变得越来越明显。《内科学年鉴》(Annals of Internal Medicine)上刊登的一篇元分析文章发现，完全没有证据支撑饱和脂肪会提高心脏病风险的说法。（实际上，有一些证据显示，缺乏饱和脂肪反而可能有害。）研究人员分析了72项不同的研究，与往常一样，还强调需要进一步探索，比如开展更多的临床研究。当然还需要研究，不过那些去皮鸡胸肉和“鬼才相信不是黄油”(I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter)的盒装黄油替代品大概终于可以走向尾声了。
The tip of this iceberg has been visible for years, and we’re finally beginning to see the base. Of course, no study is perfect and few are definitive. But the real villains in our diet — sugar and ultra-processed foods — are becoming increasingly apparent. You can go back to eating butter, if you haven’t already.
冰山一角显露了多年，我们终于开始看到全貌了。的确，没有几项研究是完美无缺的，也没有几项能下决定性的结论。然而，我们饮食中真正的坏蛋是糖分和过度加工的食品，这一点正变得越来越显而易见。如果你还没有重新开始吃黄油，现在也可以了。
This doesn’t mean you abandon fruit for beef and cheese; you just abandon fake food for real food, and in that category of real food you can include good meat and dairy. I would argue, however, that you might not include most industrially produced animal products; stand by.
这并不意味着放弃水果，转投牛肉和奶酪；而是放弃假东西，去吃真正的食物，而上好的肉类和乳品属于真食物。虽说如此，我还是主张，不要把工业化程度最高的动物制品算到里面，先等等看。
Since the 1970s almost everyone in this country has been subjected to a barrage of propaganda about saturated fat. It was bad for you; it would kill you. Never mind that much of the nonsaturated fat was in the form of trans fats, now demonstrated to be harmful. Never mind that many polyunsaturated fats are chemically extracted oils that may also, in the long run, be shown to be problematic.
上世纪70年代以来，几乎每个美国人都被抨击饱和脂肪的宣传狂轰滥炸。它对你的健康不利；它会害死你。可是，很多不饱和脂肪其实是反式脂肪，现在已经证明是有害的。而且，多聚不饱和脂肪有很多是化学提取的油脂，长期食用可能会造成问题。
Never mind, too, that the industry’s idea of “low fat” became the emblematic SnackWell’s and other highly processed “low-fat” carbs (a substitution that is probably the single most important factor in our overweight/obesity problem), as well as reduced fat and even fat-free dairy, on which it made billions of dollars. (How you could produce fat-free “sour cream” is something worth contemplating.)
此外，业界的“低脂”概念也摇身一变，成为以SnackWell’s为标志的，经过深度加工的“低脂”碳水化合物（这种替代品很可能是造成美国超重和肥胖症问题的最重要的单一因素），以及让企业赚了数十亿美元的低脂乃至脱脂乳制品。（至于如何制造脱脂“酸奶油”，倒是值得人深思。）
But let’s not cry over the chicharrones or even nicely buttered toast we passed up. And let’s not think about the literally millions of people who are repelled by fat, not because it doesn’t taste good (any chef will tell you that “fat is flavor”) but because they have been brainwashed.
不过，先别为错过的炸猪皮，甚至涂满厚厚黄油的烤面包而哀嚎。也先别考虑那些因为被洗了脑，而不是因为味道不好（任何一个厨师都会说“肥油出滋味”），才对脂肪深恶痛绝的人——毫不夸张地说，这样的人有数百万。
Rather, let’s try once again to pause and think for a moment about how it makes sense for us to eat, and in whose interest it is for us to eat hyperprocessed junk. The most efficient summary might be to say “eat real food” and “avoid anything that didn’t exist 100 years ago.” You might consider a dried apricot (one ingredient) versus a Fruit Roll-Up (13 ingredients, numbers 2, 3 and 4 of which are sugar or forms of added sugar). Or you might reflect that real yogurt has two or three ingredients (milk plus bacteria, with some jam or honey if you like) and that the number in Breyers YoCrunch Cookies n’ Cream Yogurt is unknowable (there are a few instances of “and/or”) but certainly at least 18.
我们要试着停下来，想一想吃过度加工的垃圾食品怎么会合情合理？我们吃这些东西又会让谁获益？最有效的总结或许是，“要吃真正的食物”，并且“别吃100年前不存在的任何东西”。你大概会在干杏仁（单一成分）与Fruit Roll-Up牌水果点心（13种成分，其中第二三四种是糖和人工添加糖）之间做出抉择。或者，你也许会想，真正的酸奶有两三种成分（牛奶和细菌，喜欢的话可以再加上点果酱或蜂蜜），而Breyers YoCrunch牌曲奇酸奶杯(Cookies n’ Cream Yogurt)的确切配料数则不得而知（有好几项写着“和/或”），但至少也有18种。
Many things have gone awry with the way we produce food. And it isn’t just the existence of junk food but the transformation of ingredients we could once take for granted or thought of as “healthy.” Indeed, meat, dairy, wheat and corn have become foods that frequently contain antibiotics and largely untested chemicals, or are produced using hybrids or methods that have increased yield but may have produced unwanted results.
我们生产食物的方式有很多方面都误入歧途。不光是垃圾食品的存在，还有我们曾经习以为常或认为“健康”的成分被大加改造。实际上，肉类、乳制品、小麦和玉米要么变成了加工食品，经常添加抗生素及基本未经检验的化学物质，要么是生产中运用了杂交，或者能提高产量但会产生意外后果的手段。