A skirt lifted above her ankle. A beauty mark painted on her cheek. A direct gaze. Sitting alone over a drink in a cafe.
掀到脚踝以上的裙摆，面颊上的美人痣，火辣直接的凝视，咖啡馆里独自一人喝着饮料。
These were some of the clues that a woman in 19th-century Paris might not be a person of standing but just might be a streetwalker.
在19世纪的巴黎，如果你看到这样一个女人，那么她很可能不是什么有地位的人，而是一个站街妓女。
Ambiguity about prostitutes in the public space is a central theme of “Splendor and Misery: Images of Prostitution 1850-1910,” which opens on Tuesday and runs through Jan. 17 at the Musée d’Orsay here. Taking its title from Honoré de Balzac’s mid-19th-century Comédie Humaine novel “The Splendors and Miseries of Courtesans,” it is touted by the museum as the first major exhibition on the artistic representation of prostitution in Paris.
“盛衰记：1850-1910年间的妓女形象”(Splendor and Misery: Images of Prostitution 1850-1910)展览于周二在巴黎奥赛德博物馆(Musée d’Orsay)开幕，持续到明年1月17日，妓女在公共空间的暧昧性是展览的核心主题。展览的名字来自奥诺雷·德·巴尔扎克(Honoré de Balzac)19世纪中期的小说《人间喜剧》(Comédie Humaine)中的《交际花盛衰记》(The Splendors and Miseries of Courtesans)，博物馆将这个展览称为，以巴黎卖淫业为主题的艺术作品的第一场大型展览。
Paris during this period was a city in transformation. Its population of one million in 1850 almost doubled by 1870 as men and women abandoned the countryside for this capital. Traditional social structures and codes of behavior shattered. The rise of a wealthy urban class through trade and industry meant plenty of money to spend.
那段时期的巴黎正值变革期。1850年，全市人口只有100万，但到了1870年，几乎增加了一倍，男人和女人们从乡村纷纷涌向首都。传统的社会结构与行为方式受到冲击。城镇阶级通过贸易和工业致富，他们的日益崛起意味着大量金钱消费。
In this frenzied era of commerce, prostitution — already legal and considered a necessary evil — exploded.
在这个狂热的商业时代，卖淫业——当时这个职业是合法的，并且被视为是一种不可避免的恶事——也出现了爆发。
Every major artist and writer (male, of course) explored the subject. Over the years, it was romanticized, exposed, caricatured and eventually condemned. Prostitution became so central to the artistic imagination that the poet Charles Baudelaire wrote in his personal journal: “What is art? Prostitution.”
所有大艺术家与作家（当然，是男性）都探索过这个主题。多年来，这个职业被浪漫化、被揭露、被讽刺，最终被谴责。妓女成了艺术想象的核心，诗人夏尔·波德莱尔(Charles Baudelaire)在私人日记中写道：“艺术是什么？就是卖淫。”
“Why was prostitution such a big theme for artists?” said Richard Thomson, professor of fine art at the Edinburgh College of Art and a curator of the exhibition. “There was the sexual aspect, of course. But there was another reason. The city was slippery. Everything was speeding up, becoming more commercial, more ambiguous, more of a spectacle. How can we be sure this person filled a certain role and not another? Who was who? Was she or wasn’t she? These questions disturbed and fascinated artists.”
“为什么卖淫会成为艺术家们的重大主题呢？”爱丁堡艺术学院美术教授、本次展览的策展人理查德·汤姆森(Richard Thomson)说。“这里当然有性方面的原因，但还有另一个原因。这座城市是如此不可靠，一切都在加速发展，变得更商业、更含糊，更像是一种奇观。我们该怎样确定某人能充当特定的角色，而不是另外的角色？谁是谁？是她，不是她？这些问题让艺术家们感到困惑和着迷。”
In this show, the museum has brought together masterpieces by artists of the day, including Edgar Degas, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Édouard Manet, Edvard Munch, Vincent van Gogh and Pablo Picasso.
在这次展览上，博物馆展出了当时的诸多大师杰作，包括埃德加·德加(Edgar Degas)、昂利·德·图卢兹-劳特累克(Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec)、爱德华·马奈(Édouard Manet)、爱德华·蒙克(Edvard Munch)、文森特·梵高(Vincent van Gogh)与巴勃罗·毕加索(Pablo Picasso)等人的作品。
The artists explored only the world of female prostitution; male prostitution was treated as a homosexual act subject to criminal prosecution. However, the exhibition includes a small number of police reports and photographs of men together in sexually suggestive poses.
这些艺术家只是探索妓女的世界，在当时，为同性恋者服务的男妓要面临刑事指控。然而这次展览中也有一小部分来自警方的报告与照片，内容是男性在一起进行性意味活动。
To illustrate the interaction between the artists’ representations of the prostitutes’ world and its harsh reality, the show has drawn on the vast collection of police records, photographs, periodicals and pornographic material from France’s national library.
为了说明艺术家描绘的妓女世界，与妓女面临的严酷现实之间的互动关系，展览还展出了法国国家图书馆所收藏的大量的警方记录、照片、期刊与色情材料。
There are also objects of the trade, including jetons (tokens) paid by clients to prostitutes in lieu of cash, which went directly to the bordello’s madame; brothel guides for tourists; and business cards advertising ambiguous services. (One offered “hygienic massages” in a setting where English was spoken.)
此外还有和交易相关的物品，包括客户付给妓女的代币（它们很快就会落到妓院老鸨的手中去）、给旅客的妓院指南、以及推广模糊性服务的生意名片。（其中一张上面写着提供“卫生按摩”服务，发现卡片的地方说的的确是英语。）
One room of the show is dominated by the “Armchair of Love, or Chair of Voluptousness,” a brocade-upholstered contraption with a seat and bronze stirrups on the top and a place to recline below, to have relations with two women at once. It was built in the late-19th-century for the Prince of Wales and future King Edward VII, who visited Paris for pleasure.
一个展厅里的主要产品是“性爱扶手椅”或“享乐椅”，这是一个铺着锦缎垫子的奇怪装置，是一把椅子，上面有青铜的脚蹬，还有一处可以放倒，这是为了与两个女人同时做爱而设计的。它是19世纪末为前来巴黎寻欢作乐的威尔士王子特制的，他后来成了爱德华七世国王。
The cornerstone of prostitution in the mid-19th-century was the “maison close” — “closed house,” or bordello, a controlled legal entity where women were registered with the police and subjected to regular medical examinations.
在19世纪中期，卖淫业是以妓院(bordello)为核心的，妓院是受到管控的法律实体，女人在那里向警方登记，并且要经常接受体检。
Several bordello paintings by Toulouse-Lautrec are here, the women depicted neither as victims nor femmes fatales, but as working women. In one, a woman lifts her dress for a medical inspection; in another, a nude woman pulls a black stocking over her knee.
展览中有一些图卢兹-劳特累克所绘的妓院，在他笔下，女人们并不是牺牲品，也不是狐狸精，而是工作中的女性。在一幅图里，女人掀起裙子做体检；在另一幅图里，一个裸体女人从腿上脱下黑色丝袜。
As more women decided to work as independent contractors, the number of brothels declined. Women working in poor-paying jobs as florists and laundresses, for example, might supplement their incomes with part-time prostitution. In the streets, in cafes and bars, at the theater or the opera, it was often difficult to tell the “honest women” from those who sold their bodies.
然而愈来愈多的女人愿意单干，妓院的数量随之减少。很多从事报酬不高职业的女人，比如卖花女和洗衣妇，会兼职卖淫增加收入。在街头、咖啡馆和酒吧，以及剧院或歌剧院，把“可敬的女人”和卖身女子区分开来往往并不容易。
In the opening room of the exhibition, for example, hangs the 1892 painting “Sur le Boulevard (La Parisienne),” by Louis Valtat, of a heavily made-up woman wearing flat black tie shoes and a long black boa. She is lifting her skirt several inches to reveal her ankle, a sign that she is a prostitute.
在展览一进门的大厅，悬挂着一幅1892年的油画《街头（巴黎女子）》(Sur le Boulevard [La Parisienne])，作者是路易·瓦尔塔(Louis Valtat)，画面上是一个浓妆艳抹的女人，穿着黑色平底系带鞋，戴着长长的黑色围巾。她把裙子微微掀起几英寸，露出自己的脚踝，这表明她是妓女。
The exhibition also explores the world of courtesans, the top of the hierarchy. These were kept women who were often showered with jewels and elegant clothing and housed in luxuriously decorated mansions. (Cash payments were considered vulgar.)
展览还揭示出位于卖淫界最顶层的交际花世界。她们是被包养的女人，经常佩戴珠宝，身穿华服，居住在豪宅里。(现金付酬被认为是粗俗的行为。)
A painting of Valtesse de la Bigne, one of Paris’s most celebrated courtesans, portrays her in a ruffled white dress, holding a white umbrella, a half-smile on her face. There is nothing to suggest she sells herself. In a nearby display case, however, is her walking stick and a whip with six thin metal strands that can be neatly hidden inside.
展览中有一幅瓦尔黛丝·德拉比涅(Valtesse de la Bigne)的画像，她是巴黎最著名的交际花，画面中她身穿白色褶边长裙，手拿白伞，面带隐约的微笑。没有任何迹象暗示她靠出卖自己为生。然而旁边的展柜里有她的手杖和鞭子，鞭子上有细细的六股金属丝绳，可以方便地隐匿起来。
One of the exhibition’s centerpieces is Manet’s “Olympia,” the painting of his muse, the 17-year-old Victorine Meurent, posing as a reclining prostitute, with a gaze of independence and defiance that shocked the art world. Among the telltale signs of the profession: the orchid in her hair and the black cat at her side.
展览的重头戏之一是马奈的《奥林匹亚》(Olympia)，画中人是他的缪斯，17岁的维克托里娜·莫兰(Victorine Meurent)，她像妓女一样斜躺在那里，眼神中的独立与挑衅令整个艺术界为之震惊。旁边的一些迹象可以说明她的职业：头发里的兰花和身边的黑猫。
With the advent of photography came a new medium to represent prostitution. Photographers were prohibited from working inside brothels, so they recreated these scenes in their studios. The photographers and their subjects remained anonymous; the photos were sold illegally.
随着摄影的发明，用来表现卖淫业的媒介又多了一种。摄影师们被禁止进入妓院工作，所以他们在摄影棚内复现布景。摄影师和被拍摄者们都保持匿名；销售这些照片也是违法的。
Behind heavy red velvet curtains are two small rooms off limits to those under 18. In them hang pornographic photographs of heterosexual and homosexual activity and women in various sexual poses.
在展厅厚重的红色丝绒帷幕之后，有两个小房间是禁止18岁以下参观者进入的。里面挂着异性恋与同性恋的情色照片，以及女人摆出各种性感姿态的照片。
A number of artists focused on the suffering of prostitutes. Picasso was allowed access to the Saint-Lazare prison, where prostitutes, many with syphilis, were locked up. He painted them in shades of blue, as sad Madonnas, with elongated bodies and sculpted faces.
许多艺术家都关注妓女的痛苦。毕加索被允许探访圣拉扎尔监狱，那里关押着许多妓女，其中很多人都患有梅毒。他用蓝色描绘她们，把她们画为悲伤的圣母，有着长长的身躯和雕塑般的面庞。
Most jarring in the show are 1910-1912 photographs of women whose faces and bodies have been disfigured by syphilis.
展出中最可怖的是一组1910-1912年的照片，很多女人的脸和身体都因为梅毒而变形。
The show ends with the moralistic portrayal of prostitution by early-20th-century artists. France was by then cursed with high rates of alcoholism and syphilis, and prostitutes came to be considered disease-carrying corrupters of men.
展览最后，是一组20世纪初艺术家们为卖淫业所创作的富于道德感的画像。当时法国陷入酗酒与梅毒的深渊，妓女成了携带疾病，腐蚀男人的罪魁。
A dozen films about prostitutes are to be shown, including Luis Buñuel’s 1967 “Belle de Jour,” in which Catherine Deneuve plays a bored bourgeois housewife who becomes a high-class prostitute.
展览中也放映一些关于妓女的电影，包括路易·布努埃尔(Luis Buñuel)1967年的《白日美人》(Belle de Jour)，片中凯瑟琳·德纳芙(Catherine Deneuve)饰演一个百无聊赖的小资产阶级家庭主妇，后来成了高级妓女。
The issue of prostitution continues to perplex the French. The exhibition coincides with a protracted debate in the French Parliament about whether a prostitute’s customers should be subject to prosecution, although prostitution is, and is likely to remain, legal here. Last spring, some prostitutes protested the bill in front of the National Assembly. One sign read: “You’re sleeping with us. You’re voting against us.”
卖淫问题一直困扰着法国。展览举办之时，正值法国议会讨论嫖客是否应被起诉之际，不过在这里，卖淫仍然是合法的，未来似乎也仍将保持如此。春天，一些妓女在议会大楼前抗议这一法案。一幅标语上写道：“你们一边和我们睡觉，一边投票反对我们。”
Prostitution still retains the scent of the romantic. Among the corporate sponsors of the Musée d’Orsay exhibition is the Maison Souquet, a boutique hotel in a former bordello in Pigalle, near the Moulin Rouge nightclub. It has kept the bordello décor, and each of its rooms is named after a famous Parisian courtesan.
卖淫业依然保持着它的罗曼蒂克气息。奥赛德博物馆这次展览的公司赞助者之一是苏克酒店(Maison Souquet)，这家精品酒店之前位于比加尔的一家妓院之内，距离红磨坊夜总会不远。如今酒店内依然维持着妓院的装潢，每个房间都以一位著名的巴黎交际花命名。