With a rush of sweeping cultural transformations, the South Korean capital is becoming the fashionable intrigue of the Far East.
随着一系列广泛文化变革的涌现，韩国首都开始成为远东的时尚魔都。
IT IS THE NEW CAN’T-MISS BUILDING in the heart of Seoul. Like the bandages on a plastic-surgery patient, the last of the protective fencing has been peeled away to reveal the capital’s latest architectural creation. City Hall, a vintage vestige of South Korea’s ruthless onetime colonial overlord Japan, has been restored. Over a cold stone shoulder, as formidable as the all-powerful mayor who works within, now rises a tsunami of glass and steel, the future poised to obliterate the past in the next 60 seconds. It took four years and five months to build. This is the new face of Seoul.
这是首尔市中心最新的一座不容无视的大厦。随着大楼的最后一道防护栅栏像整容手术病人身上的绷带一样被剥除，首都最新的一部建筑作品问世。大楼是被重新修复的市政厅，也就是一度殖民统治韩国的残暴君主日本所留下的一个年代久远的遗迹。现在，越过冷冰冰的石头，一场玻璃钢筋的海啸正席卷而来，就像在里面工作的那位无所不能的市长一样令人敬畏，再过60秒，未来将抹去往昔的痕迹。大楼耗时四年零五个月建成。这是首尔的新面孔。
“Pali! Pali!” everybody likes to say. Faster! Faster! South Korea has been sprinting down the road to recovery since the end of the Korean War. As fast as PSY’s “Gangnam Style” anthem, mocking Seoul’s Ferrari-and-furs nouveaux riches, galloped to the top of the Western music charts this year, the city has emerged as one of the most hip (and most underrated) cultural capitals in the world. Cruise-line-proportioned flagships, architecturally bombastic headquarters, museums celebrating traditional houses to handbags, haute and hot restaurants are all competing for the attention of its 10 million increasingly affluent residents.
“快点！快点！”每个人都喜欢这么说。自从朝鲜战争结束后，韩国就一直在复苏的道路上全力冲刺。鸟叔(PSY)那首讽刺开法拉利、穿皮草的首尔新贵的神曲《江南Style》(Gangnam Style)今年跃至西方音乐排行榜之首，相应地，这座城市也迅速成为世界上最时尚（也最受低估）的文化首都之一。规模宏大的旗舰店，建筑风格夸张的总部大楼，赞美着从传统房屋到手袋各种东西的博物馆，高端、火爆的餐馆，都在争相吸引着城中那1000万越来越富裕的居民。
Koreans have the reputation for being nose-to-the-grindstone, study-smarties. But looking around Seoul today, one can only conclude they’re ready to enjoy themselves. It’s no longer the city voted least favorite layover in the Far East. Let everyone rabbit on about how places like Shanghai are The Future: Seoul residents are smarter dressers; its restaurants feel more fussed over, more daring; and after an early force-feed of education, everyone’s creative, individualist side is emerging.
韩国人以埋头苦干著称，擅长学习书本知识。然而，现在环顾首尔，你会发现，他们在时刻准备享受生活。它不再是那座被选为远东最无趣的转机城市了。大家都去喋喋不休地讨论为什么上海这样的地方代表着未来吧：首尔人才更会穿衣；那里的饭店感觉上对顾客更无微不至、更敢于创新；而经过早期强迫接受的教育后，每个人创造性、个性化的一面开始显现。
South Korea never just apes the West but puts its own topspin on music, fashion, food, technology. Apple may have won its patent-infringement lawsuit against Samsung, but Samsung’s Galaxy S III is neck and neck with the iPhone 5 in stores, early to the notion that people wanted smartphones with bigger screens. Samsung has overtaken Sony as the world’s biggest maker of TVs. “Apple takes forever to develop a jewel of a phone, but Samsung, they just throw it out there. Bam-bam-bam!,” says the architect Euhlo Suh. “People don’t like this feature? Let’s make another one. Bam-bam-bam!”
韩国从来不只是笨拙地模仿西方，而是在音乐、时尚、食物和科技中加入自己的特色，进而大放异彩。苹果(Apple)是在专利侵犯诉讼中打赢了三星(Samsung)，但在零售店里，三星的Galaxy S III和苹果可是平起平坐——它很早就清楚人们想要屏幕更大的智能手机。三星已取代索尼(Sony)成为世界上最大的TV生产商。“苹果费尽心机开发一款极品手机，但三星呢，他们就一个接一个地往外扔。哐哐哐！”建筑师徐乙昊（Euhlo Suh，音译）说。“人们不喜欢这个特性？我们再开发另外一个，哐哐哐！”
That’s just the hardware. Content has arrived, too. The cultural wave rolling from these shores already has a name — hallyu — literally, the Korean Wave, coined by awestruck Chinese who were the first to acknowledge Korea’s revised profile in Asia. Its “K-pop” music and television shows have been embraced with such a Pacific Basin bear hug that money from these sectors alone buoys South Korea’s economy by $4.5 billion a year. This year, Korean directors transitioned from Hallyuwood to Hollywood, and will open their first English-language films, starring Arnold Schwarzenegger and Nicole Kidman.
这还只是硬件。内容也已到来。从韩国翻滚而来的文化浪潮已经有了一个名字——韩流，这个词是首先认可韩国在亚洲全新形象的惊叹不已的中国人所发明的。近年来，“韩国流行音乐”和韩剧受到太平洋周边各国的熊抱式欢迎，以至于仅这两个产业每年就为韩国经济贡献45亿美元。今年，韩国导演从韩流坞(Hallyuwood)转向好莱坞(Hollywood)，推出他们的首批英语电影，由阿诺·施瓦辛格(Arnold Schwarzenegger)和妮可·基德曼(Nicole Kidman)等明星主演。
The Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art, which opened in 2004, is Seoul’s bigger, badder Whitney Museum, and a hard-won National Museum of Contemporary Art will make its debut later this year. (Like many of Seoul’s prestige projects, the Leeum was designed by Western architects and was hardly issue-free: Rem Koolhaas, Jean Nouvel and Mario Botta were each commissioned for a site that shrunk after the economic crisis in the late 1990s — witness this trio of buildings now existing in near collision with each other.)
2004年开放的三星美术馆Leeum(Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art)是首尔的惠特尼博物馆(Whitney Museum)，只不过更大、更大胆，国家现代艺术博物馆(National Museum of Contemporary Art)也将在今年亮相。（和首尔许多著名工程一样，Leeum由西方建筑师设计，也并非没有问题：雷姆·库哈斯[Rem Koolhaas]、让·努维尔[Jean Nouvel]和马里奥·博塔[Mario Botta]都被委托设计一个场馆，在20世纪90年代末期经济危机后，整个地块的面积缩小了——看看现在这三栋建筑吧，都快撞在一起了。）
The worldliness announces itself on every street corner: a constellation of starchitect-designed headquarters is aligning in the night sky. Here a Rem Koolhaas. There a Daniel Libeskind. Perhaps not so impressive a feat as a city like Shanghai, but Seoul is well on its way, even if the candelabra of new buildings are in many instances snuffed every night by 10 p.m., as the economy-minded socialist government has encouraged.
物质繁华彰显在每个街道角落：由明星建筑师设计的总部大楼在夜空的背景下成排耸立。这儿一栋由雷姆·库哈斯设计的大楼，那儿一栋丹尼尔·里伯斯金(Daniel Libeskind)的建筑作品。也许首尔还没有上海那样令人印象深刻，但它正在紧紧追赶，即便新大楼的枝形吊灯往往到晚上10点还是会熄灭，正如注意节俭的市政府（本届首尔市政府具有社会主义倾向）所鼓励的那样。
Until now, South Korea has never really registered as a culture — or as a country — save in news reports about threats from the North, forever lumped together with places like Taiwan as an emerging industrial powerhouse. Seoul is run by a tight group of family-owned conglomerates (Samsung, Doosan, LG, et al.) called the chaebol, with every line of business in their tentacle grip. Now these families’ third-generation sons and daughters, in their 30s and 40s, are leading Seoul through the most radical upgrade of its 1,350-year history. They’ve come of age during South Korea’s growth with all the attached benefits: virtually every one of them educated abroad (America, mainly), fluent in foreign languages, buzzing with international connections.
直到现在，韩国还没有真正被当成一种文化或者一个国家——只出现在有关朝鲜威胁的新闻报道中，而且还总是被和台湾等地放在一起，笼统地称为新兴工业强国。首尔由一个由家族企业集团组成的小集团运行着（包括三星、斗山[Doosan]、LG等等），也就是所谓的财阀，每个行业都在他们的掌控之中。现在这些家族的第三代儿女，大约30多岁到40多岁，正在引领首尔进行其1350年历史上最激进的城市升级。他们成长于韩国迅速发展的时期，并获得了所有附带的好处：基本上每个人都在国外受过教育（主要是美国），会说流利的外语，具有深广的国际人脉网。
The most graphic sign of the city’s transformation is perhaps the string of fashion flagships docked on the main drag of Gangnam’s Cheongdam-dong: Louis Vuitton, Hermès, Tory Burch, Prada, Gucci. It all reads very Rodeo Drive — that is, if there weren’t already a street named Rodeo Drive in Gangnam’s Apgujeong. The endgame for these companies has been to plant a flag early, establish the brand as quickly as possible. This explains what Dean & DeLuca is doing in the basement of Gangnam’s Shinsegae department store flogging French chocolates and muesli, why Jamie Oliver is taking meetings with the “global lifestyle company” CJ Foodville and why Tory Burch entered a partnership with Samsung Chiel. “If Samsung hadn’t approached us, we probably would have approached them,” says Burch, whose orange-lacquer flagship and 23 shop-in-shops enjoy double-digit sales growth yearly.
首尔城市转型最生动的标志可能是位于江南区清潭洞主街的一排时尚旗舰店：路易威登(Louis Vuitton)、爱马仕(Hermès)、托里·伯奇(Tory Burch)、普拉达(Prada)和古驰(Gucci)。这听起来非常像罗迪欧大道(Rodeo Drive)——实际上，江南区狎鸥亭有一条名为罗迪欧的街道。对于这些公司来说，游戏的终局就是要及早插旗，尽快建立品牌形象。这就解释了为什么Dean & DeLuca会在江南区新世界(Shinsegae)百货公司的地下广场开设店铺，销售法国巧克力和什锦早餐；为什么英国名厨杰米·奥利弗(Jamie Oliver)会与“推广全球生活方式”的CJ Foodville举行会议；为什么托里·伯奇与三星第一毛织(Samsung Chiel)开展合作。伯奇表示，“如果三星没找我们，我们可能也会找他们。”伯奇在韩国有一家橙色调的旗舰店及23家店中店，其销售额的年增长率达到两位数。
Forty years ago, Gangnam (“south of the river”) was farmland. Today, after hyper-development and redevelopment that made numerous property owners mega-millionaires overnight, rabid consumerism runs free.
40年前，江南区还是一片农田。如今，极度的发展和改建促使很多业主一夜之间成为百万富翁，消费狂潮在这里自由奔腾 。
The wives of Gangnam crowd into the months-old Gourmet 494 in the basement of the Galleria mall. To call this a food court would be an act of libel. The hottest restaurants in Seoul have branches here, like Pizzeria D’Buzza and Vatos Urban Tacos, the latter of which began with funds its California-born founding partner, Kenneth Park, raised on Kickstarter. The menu is an East-West border mix with kimchi carnitas fries, galbi short-rib tacos, peach makgeolitas made with Korea’s fermented rice wine makgeolli, and funny pictograms display the source of each meat, required by law ever since a 2008 controversy when beef from the United States was allowed back into Korea.
江南区的贵妇们纷纷来到Galleria百货商店刚刚开张数月的地下美食馆Gourmet 494。称这里为美食广场堪称诽谤。首尔最热门的餐厅都在这里设有分店，比如Pizzeria D’Buzza和Vatos Urban Tacos，后者的启动资金是由出生在加利福尼亚的创始合作伙伴肯尼斯·朴(Kenneth Park)通过融资网站Kickstarter筹得的。菜肴融合了东西方特色，比如泡菜猪肉配薯条、烤肋骨配玉米饼，以及用韩国米酒马格利制成的桃味酒，还有一些有趣的图像展示每块肉的来源地，2008年韩国允许美国牛肉回归韩国市场，引发争议，此后，韩国法律要求商家标明肉的来源地。
At Gourmet 494, customers are learning to care more and pay more for groceries. Elderly ladies wearing stewardess-y pillbox hats sell gift sets of grapefruit-size apples and pears. Tins of Spam packed with Andalucian olive oil run counter to such other dainty offerings as the “brioches haricots rouges.” After the Korean War, the American base in town offloaded Spam onto the hapless starving natives who developed a taste for it. Now it is a tradition to give Spam as a thank-you to parents.
在Gourmet 494，顾客学会更加关心，花更多钱购买食品。老年妇女戴着类似空姐的小圆帽在卖礼盒，里面装着葡萄柚大小的苹果和梨。浸泡在安达卢西亚橄榄油里的罐装午餐肉和“红豆奶油蛋卷”等更加高档的食品形成对比。朝鲜战争结束后，这里的美军基地向饥饿的当地人分发了大量午餐肉罐头，这些人慢慢喜欢上了这种食品。如今把午餐肉罐头送给父母表示感谢已成了一种传统。
Blocks away, at a satellite outpost of the cult Italian fashion emporium 10 Corso Como, Faye Lee gives her order to the waiter. Lee, who introduced Milan’s exotic-skins brand Colombo to South Korea, is outfitted in the local uniform: fur vest, leggings and wedge heels. Bought out by Samsung in 2011, she drives a yellow Ferrari 458 Italia. Upstairs at the store, where Thom Browne shirts hang next to Mercury-winged Azzedine Alaia boots, an employee tails shoppers closely — too closely. The same occurs at the Rick Owens store in Dosan Park, where a Facsimile Rick in the window resembles a Dothraki horse lord from “Game of Thrones,” a wind machine buffeting his hair. In Seoul, the designer clothes may have arrived but the service has yet to follow.
几个街区外，费伊·李(Faye Lee)在倍受追捧的意大利时尚购物中心10 Corso Como的分店给服务员分配任务。把米兰的豪华皮具品牌Colombo引入韩国的费伊·李身着店里的制服：皮草马甲、打底裤和坡跟鞋。2011年，当自己的业务被三星收购之后，她买了一辆黄色的法拉利458 Italia。楼上，桑姆·布朗尼(Thom Browne)的衬衫和装饰着墨丘利翅膀的阿瑟丁·阿拉亚(Azzedine Alaia)的靴子挂在一起，一名店员紧跟在购物者身后——跟得太紧了。岛山公园(Dosan Park)的里克·欧文斯(Rick Owens)店里也是一样的情景，橱窗里的仿真里克（Facsimile Rick，模仿里克·欧文斯做的模特——译注）和《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)里的多斯拉克(Dothraki)马王很像，一台鼓风机在旁边猛吹着他的头发。首尔或许已经拥有了名牌服装，但服务还没有跟上来。
Koreans are as obsessed with image and aging as Westerners, and plastic surgery borders on national pastime. Having a “small face” is the ultimate, and the procedure of the moment is a very painful double-jaw overhaul. Also: hair implants for women to fortify a moderately thinning hairline. Koreans are decidedly more adventurous on the road to perfection. At Gangnam’s Enzyme Health Spa, women soak in fermenting rice bran up to their necks to lose weight. Then there’s the Dr. Fish pedicure, where for $2, carp will nibble dry skin from feet, like a thousand points of electroshock. Opening the wallet wider, for $170,000, locals can join Chaum, a Kubrickian anti-aging center in the Pie’n Polus building that will bank your endlessly renewable stem cells for the day stem-cell therapies become viable in Seoul.
与西方人一样，韩国人也非常关心形象和衰老问题，整形手术几乎成了全国性的消遣项目。拥有“小脸”是终极目标，而目前流行的是极其痛苦的双颚整形手术。而且，女性还会为了增加发量而植发。毫无疑问，韩国人在追求完美的道路上更加大胆。在江南的酶健康Spa(Enzyme Health Spa)里，为了减肥，女士们脖子以下全身浸泡在发酵的米糠中。然后还有鱼足疗，花上两美元，小鱼就会咬掉你脚上的干燥皮肤，你会感觉就像受了一千次电击一样。再多花些钱，拿出17万美元，当地人就可以加入Chaum。这个库布里克式的抗衰老中心位于Pie’n Polus大楼，它可以把你可以无止境更新的干细胞储存起来，等着首尔能够进行干细胞治疗的那一天。
Restaurant bills can feel similarly ludicrous too, as if price alone can elevate the mediocre. At Elbon the Table, this translates to gold leaf on foie gras, steak served with five colored salts, wasabi ice-cream powder steaming from a liquid-nitrogen application. Innovation feels fresher at Okitchen, where the servers are all chefs in their 20s rotating nights in the kitchen and sending out Jeju horse carpaccio and Gorgonzola ice cream.
餐厅的账单也一样会让人感到荒谬可笑，仿佛提高价格就能化平庸为高品位。在Elbon the Table，这一点表现为用金箔纸包裹的鹅肝酱、牛扒搭配着五彩的盐、芥末冰激凌在液氮的作用下冒着白烟。Okitchen的创新感更强，服务员都是20多岁的厨师，他们晚上轮流在厨房工作，送出济州岛生马肉片和戈尔根朱勒干酪冰激凌。
At Goo STK, customers can call ahead to reserve their dry-aged steaks, and the kitchen stays open until 1 a.m., an exception in a city where most restaurants take their last reservation at 8 p.m. Why? To make way for the drinking that will go on afterward: in Asia, it is Korea that hits the bottle hardest, another reason you always hear people comparing the Koreans with the Irish. Jinro’s branded soju, a drink much like vodka, is the world’s best-selling alcohol you’ve never heard of.
在Goo STK，顾客可以提前打电话预约干式熟成牛排，厨房会一直开到凌晨1点，而这个城市多数餐厅接受的最晚预约时间为晚上8点。这是为什么？因为要给随后的喝酒让路：在亚洲，韩国是喝酒最厉害的国家，这也是我们经常听到人们把韩国人与爱尔兰人相比较的一个原因。和伏特加很相似的真露(Jinro)牌烧酒是世界上销量最大的酒类之一，但你可能从未听说过它。
Speakeasy Mortar looks like it might be a sauna from the outside. Instead in this swank whiskey bar, the anomalous American vice chairman of the Doosan corporation has four men out on a hoesik, a traditional roundelay of after-work drinks. Today, one of them won an award. After a last belt of Guatemalan sipping rum, the boss is off. His team bows deeply at the waist as he vanishes into his chauffeured car.
从外面看，Speakeasy Mortar很像一个桑拿房。在这个华丽的威士忌酒吧里，斗山集团(Doosan)不拘一格的美国副会长与四个员工在一起吃饭，这是韩国人下班后一种传统的喝酒休闲方式。今天，他们其中一人得了奖。喝过最后一轮危地马拉朗姆酒后，老板离开了。当他钻进有司机驾驶的座驾时，他的团队成员深深鞠躬。
Lee Bul, Seoul’s biggest contemporary artist in residence, wears an apron as she bustles around her embassy-area studio. On the wall is a wearable Sigmund the Sea Monster sculpture reconstructed for her recent Mori Art Museum retrospective in Tokyo.
首尔最著名的当代艺术家李昢(Lee Bul)在她位于使馆区的工作室里忙碌着，系着一条围裙。墙上挂着一个可以穿戴的海怪西格蒙德(Sigmund the Sea Monster)雕塑，为了她最近在东京森美术馆(Mori Art Museum)举办的回顾展，这个雕塑经过了改造。
Only three Korean artists have a truly international profile and an international market commensurate with that reputation: Bul, Doh-ho Suh (who mainly resides in London) and the longtime Japan resident Lee Ufan. Though the chaebol are major collectors — particularly the wives, sisters and daughters-in-law who collectively run six Korean art museums — they mainly indulge a taste for secondary-market Western art. “Go to MoMA in New York. Three of the biggest corporate sponsors are Samsung, Hanjin and Hyundai Card,” says Bul’s husband, James B. Lee, who represents his wife and is a consulting partner at Seoul’s leading PKM gallery.
只有三位韩国艺术家享有真正的国际知名度和与之相称的国际市场：李昢、徐道获（Doh-ho Su，大部分时间住在伦敦）以及长期住在日本的李禹焕(Lee Ufan)。虽然那些财阀是大收藏者——尤其是经营着六家韩国美术馆的大人物的太太、姐妹和媳妇等——但他们感兴趣的主要是二级市场的西方艺术品。“去纽约现代艺术博物馆（The Museum of Modern Art，简称MoMA）看看。三个最大的企业赞助者是三星、韩进(Hanjin)和现代信用卡公司(Hyundai Card)，”李昢的丈夫詹姆斯·B·李(James B. Lee)说。他是妻子的代理，并在首尔一流的PKM画廊担任顾问合伙人。
Every major museum swings through Seoul with its trustees and directors with the goal of forging future institutional partnerships. Still, international collectors are not coming, which means fewer galleries, which hurts younger local artists. “I still think Korea is very isolated,” Lee admits.
每家大型美术馆的理事和董事们都在首尔奔波，希望打造机构间的合作伙伴关系。然而，国际收藏者还是没来，这就意味着画廊更少，这对较年轻的当地艺术家很不利。詹姆斯·B·李承认，“我仍然认为韩国非常孤立。”
It’s difficult to tell who’s stockpiling what because of increased secrecy: South Korea doesn’t impose any taxes on transactions of art property, and artwork is exempt from transfer and inheritance taxes, too. Which makes it an ideal form of currency for some chaebol, and a way to launder money and make bribes. A number of prominent executives have found themselves accused and convicted of tax evasion, most famously Lee Kun-hee, the chairman of Samsung. Last year, the chairman and an executive at Orion Group were convicted of using embezzled funds to buy art and were sent to jail.
因为保密程度有所加强，所以很难说清谁在收藏什么：在韩国，艺术品交易无需缴纳任何税收，而且艺术品的转让和继承是免税的。因此，对于一些财阀而言，艺术品就成了一种理想的货币形式，可用于洗钱和行贿。一些著名企业高管因为逃税而受到指控或被定罪，其中最著名的是三星会长李健熙(Lee Kun-hee)。去年，好丽友集团(Orion Group)的主席和一名高管因为挪用公款购买艺术品而被定罪，最后被判监禁。
Architecture is more the vehicle for flaunting a company’s success publicly. But too often, local business owners are consumed with creating spectacular shapes beribboned with LEDs and little else. A client can cheap out. The guts of a building are often forgotten as the zany facade takes precedence. The residents like to hate a lot of what’s going up. Seoul remains the destination for “the Cloud” in Daniel Libeskind’s Yongsan International Business District, which has drawn criticism for its remarkable similarity to the smoke-wreathed ruins of the Twin Towers. Some of the other starchitects are perceived to be phoning it in. The local architect Eulho Suh compares it to American movie stars quietly shooting dopey commercials in Asia for astronomical sums.
建筑在更大程度上是公开炫耀某一家公司成功的工具，然而往往发生的情况是，本地的企业主热衷于用LED灯来构成壮观的形状，毫无内涵。客户也会贪图便宜，注重别出心裁的外墙，而忽视建筑内部的构造。很多拔地而起的建筑受到市民讨厌。但“云团”(The Cloud)还是来到了丹尼尔·里伯斯金(Daniel Libeskind)的龙山国际商务区(Yongsan International Business District)，由于其建筑设计与9·11恐怖袭击后烟雾环绕的双子塔(Twin Towers)极为相似，这两栋大楼招致批评。其他明星建筑师中，有一些被认为是在漫不经心地敷衍。本地建筑师徐乙昊（Eulho Suh，音译）形容，这就像是美国的电影明星悄悄来到亚洲，拿着天价的酬劳，拍摄傻不愣登的广告片。
Politics can also interfere. Zaha Hadid’s mercury-lobed Dongdaemun Design Plaza & Park was supposed to be a cultural complex. When the mayor who championed so many of these projects felt obliged to resign in a force play over a school-lunch referendum, his socialist replacement made a point of denouncing a number of building projects, wrenching funds. The building boom became a touchstone issue for the have-nots demonstrating in front of City Hall and citing North Korea as a model society, untainted by all this Americanism, all this mindless showing off.
政治也会干预。扎哈·哈迪德(Zaha Hadid)的作品，东大门设计广场和公园(Dongdaemun Design Plaza & Park)线条流畅，设计用途是文化区。曾经大力推动此类项目的首尔市长在一场围绕学校午餐公投的权力角力中被迫辞职后，其具有社会主义倾向的继任者刻意批评一系列建筑项目，而且取消了资金支持。对于在市政府前抗议的弱势群体来说，建筑热潮成了一个关键议题，他们声称朝鲜是一个典范式的社会，没有被这种美国化风潮和毫无意义的炫耀所侵蚀。
It is now the year of the snake, and anything born the year of the snake is strong, sheds its skin and is reborn. Rumor has it when the bandages come off, Hadid’s building will be a shopping mall.
现在是蛇年，任何生于蛇年的东西都很强壮，会蜕皮、会重生。据说，当拆下绷带后，哈迪德的大楼会成为一个购物中心。
‘Apple takes forever to develop a jewel of a phone, but Samsung, they just throw it out there. Bam-bam-bam! People don’t like this feature? Let’s make another one. Bam-bam-bam!’
“苹果费尽心机开发一款极品手机，但三星呢，他们就一个接一个地往外扔。哐哐哐！人们不喜欢这个特性？我们再开发另外一个，哐哐哐！”
Seoul’s worldliness announces itself on every street corner: Here a Rem Koolhaas. There a Daniel Libeskind.
物质繁华彰显在每个街道角落：这儿一栋由雷姆·库哈斯(Rem Koolhaas)设计的大楼，那儿一栋丹尼尔·里伯斯金(Daniel Libeskind)的建筑作品。