WASHINGTON — President Trump leaves on Friday for a nine-day, five-city foreign excursion, his first trip outside of the United States as the country’s leader and top diplomat.
华盛顿——周五，特朗普总统将出发进行为期九天、到访五城的外事访问，这是他作为美国领导人和最高外交官的首次出国访问。
He doesn’t really want to go.
他并不想去。
In recent days, Mr. Trump has groused to several friends that he is not looking forward to leaving his new White House cocoon for high-profile, high-pressure meetings with dozens of world leaders in unfamiliar settings.
近几天，特朗普向几位朋友抱怨称，他不想离开自己在白宫的新保护壳，不想在不熟悉的环境里与数十名国家领导人进行备受瞩目、压力很大的会晤。
At one point, he barked at an aide that he thought his first tour abroad should be only about half as long. He will have to abandon his well-known preference for sleeping in his own bed (or in one at the hotels or golf resorts he owns) as he hops between Saudi Arabia, Israel, Belgium, Italy and the Vatican — all places without a Trump-branded property.
他一度对一名助手咆哮称，他认为第一次出国访问的时间应该缩短一半。他在沙特阿拉伯、以色列、比利时、意大利和梵蒂冈穿梭时，将不得不放弃他的一个众所周知的偏好——在自己床上（或在他拥有的酒店或高尔夫度假村的床上）睡觉，因为这些地方都没有特朗普品牌的产业。
But the trip comes at a critical moment for Mr. Trump’s young presidency. It is his first opportunity to deliver specifics about his “America first” worldview to a global audience that has watched his initial, chaotic months in the White House with a mix of amusement, befuddlement and alarm.
不过，这次访问发生在特朗普任总统初期的一个关键时刻。这是他首次有机会向全球观众介绍自己“美国优先”世界观的具体内容。他们已经怀着欢快、迷茫和警惕的心情观看了他在白宫最初混乱的几个月里的表现。
The president’s packed schedule is filled with opportunities for Mr. Trump to slip up, publicly or privately: back-to-back discussions with the leaders of other nations, many of whom are veteran negotiators well versed in issues they care deeply about.
总统紧凑的日程让他在公开场合或私下里有很多犯错的机会，因为他要与其他国家的领导人一个接一个地会谈，其中很多人是谈判老手，十分了解自己深切关心的问题。
By contrast, it could also serve as a much-needed change of subject for a president besieged at home with an agenda frozen by scandal.
另一方面，对这位在国内被丑闻围困的总统来说，这也是一个迫切需要的主题改变。
“I’ll meet scores of leaders,” Mr. Trump told Coast Guard cadets on Wednesday as he spoke at their commencement. He pledged that during his global travels he will “strengthen old friendships and will seek new partners.”
“我将会见数十位领导人，”周三，特朗普在海岸警卫队学院的毕业典礼上对学员们说。他承诺在全球访问中“巩固已有的友谊，寻找新的伙伴”。
Even before heading to Connecticut for that speech, Mr. Trump was brooding in the White House over the latest broadside from the F.B.I. director he fired, James B. Comey. Planning for the foreign trip has proceeded haltingly, with Mr. Trump resisting some of the pageantry that is usually a hallmark of a president’s travels. A visit to Yad Vashem, the Holocaust memorial museum in Jerusalem, was cut short at his request.
甚至在前往康涅狄格州发表那次演讲之前，特朗普还在白宫为自己最近因解雇FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)而引发的猛烈抨击而郁闷。出国访问的准备工作时断时续，特朗普抵制某些通常被认为是总统出行标志的盛大活动。应他的要求，对耶路撒冷的犹太人大屠杀纪念馆(Yad Vashem)的访问被缩短了。
Preparation — a standard part of the weeks before a big foreign trip — has also been hit-or-miss in recent days.
在重大外事访问前数周进行准备是常规做法，但近些天，准备工作做得漫不经心。
As allegations of obstruction of justice and giving secrets to Russia consumed Mr. Trump’s administration, aides sought to focus the president’s fleeting attention on the vital foreign policy issues he will confront and the nuts-and-bolts difficulty of taking the White House around the globe.
特朗普政府忙于应对妨碍司法公正以及向俄罗斯泄露机密的指控，助手们努力把总统不断转移的注意力集中在他将要面对的重大外交政策问题，以及把白宫带到世界各地的具体困难上。
Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, led briefings, including one on European leaders, last week in the Oval Office. The president conferred with the defense secretary about the Middle East and discussed his Saudi Arabia meetings with his secretary of state. Among the touchy issues in Israel: whether to move the United States Embassy to Jerusalem, something the president has decided not to announce during the trip.
上周，特朗普的女婿兼高级顾问贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)在椭圆形办公室主持多项简报会，包括一项关于欧洲领导人的简报会。总统与国防部长商谈中东问题，与国务卿讨论他在沙特阿拉伯的会议。至于以色列的多个敏感问题，总统决定不在这次访问中宣布是否将美国大使馆迁往耶路撒冷。
But even as he sat with briefing books and stacks of news clippings about global events, Mr. Trump has generally just skimmed through, according to several people familiar with his preparations. Instead, he has focused on the chaos swirling around his White House.
但是，据了解总统准备工作的几个人称，即使能坐下来翻看简报和一摞摞关于全球事件的新闻剪报，特朗普也只是匆匆浏览。他的注意力都集中在围绕白宫的混乱漩涡上。
In an attempt to capture his interest, aides threaded Mr. Trump’s own name through the paragraphs of one of the two-page memos they wrote for him.
为了引起特朗普的兴趣，在给总统的两页备忘录的其中一页里，助手们将他的名字频频插入到各段文字中。
“You have to be prepared. These things tend to be heavily prepared on both sides so everyone knows what the expectations are,” said James B. Steinberg, a diplomat for former President Barack Obama who traveled extensively around the world. Of Mr. Trump, he said, “The fact that he doesn’t go in for the typical preparations complicates these things.”
“你必须做好准备。双方往往都会精心准备，所以大家都知道彼此的期望是什么，”前总统贝拉克·奥巴马的外交官詹姆斯·B·斯坦伯格(James B. Steinberg)说。他在全世界范围内进行过广泛访问。他在提到特朗普时表示：“他不进行常规的准备工作，会让事情变得复杂。”
Mr. Steinberg said Mr. Trump’s first trip should not be that difficult since he is meeting largely with allies at a time of relative peace and prosperity.
斯坦伯格表示，特朗普的第一次访问不会很棘手，因为现在是一个相对和平与繁荣的时期，而且他主要是与盟友会面。
“A trip like this is an easy trip,” he said. “There’s no crisis. It’s a relationship-building trip. It’s hard for it not to be a success unless something goes wrong.”
“这种访问比较轻松，”他说，“没什么危机。主要是维护关系。基本都会成功，除非出了岔子。”
Still, in private, Mr. Trump’s advisers acknowledge that they are concerned about his off-script eruptions, his tendency to be swayed by flattery and the possibility that foreign leaders may present him with situations he does not know how to handle. They worry he will accidentally commit the United States to something unexpected, and they have tried to caution him about various scenarios.
不过，特朗普的顾问们私下里承认，他们担心总统不按计划行事，因为他很容易因奉承话而动摇，也担心外国领导人会把他置于一些他不知该如何应对的情况中。他们担心，他会无意中让美国做出一些出人意料的承诺，他们努力提醒他各种可能出现的情况。
Mr. Trump’s last major venture overseas — a visit to one of his new golf courses in Scotland while he was campaigning for the presidency last summer — quickly went off script.
特朗普上次在国外参与的大型活动很快就偏离了计划。那是去年夏天他在竞选总统期间赴苏格兰参观自己的一个新高尔夫球场。
Arriving just as Britons voted to leave the European Union, Mr. Trump held a highly anticipated news conference where he bragged about predicting the outcome of the vote and waxed extensively about the beauty of his new golf course.
当时，英国人正在就脱欧问题进行投票。特朗普举行了一个备受期待的新闻发布会，他高谈阔论，预测投票结果，还大肆赞美自己新高尔夫球场的美丽。
“This is one of the big votes in the history of Europe and Scotland and everywhere,” he said that day in June. He then spoke at length about the golf course and resort, noting a lighthouse that sits on the course.
“这是欧洲、苏格兰和全世界历史上最重大的投票之一，”他在去年6月的那一天说。然后，他详细介绍了那个高尔夫球场和度假村，还提到了座落在球场上的一座灯塔。
“We’ve taken the lighthouse, which is a very, very important building in Florida — I mean, in Scotland — and we’ve taken that building and made it something really special,” he said. “It has incredible suites. Golfers will stop, and they’ll have something to eat.”
“我们把那座灯塔，它是佛罗里达州非常重要的一个建筑物——我的意思是苏格兰——我们把这个建筑物拿来，把它变成了非常特别的东西，”他说，“它有不可思议的套房。高尔夫球手会停下来，在那里吃点东西。”
Stephen J. Hadley, who was former President George W. Bush’s national security adviser and traveled the world with him, said that White House staff members do everything they can to avoid surprises when a president is out of the country.
前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的国家安全顾问斯蒂芬·J·哈德利(Stephen J. Hadley)曾跟随布什周游世界。哈德利表示，总统出国时，白宫的工作人员会尽力避免出现意外。
“You really hope that he sticks to the script, executes the trip as planned and avoids distractions, because the whole world is watching,” Mr. Hadley said.
“你真的希望他按计划行事，按部就班地完成访问，不要分心，因为全世界都在看，”哈德利说。
Mr. Trump’s first trip is planned with that in mind. His travels will start in Saudi Arabia and Israel, where Mr. Trump’s counterparts are pleased to have him in office. He will have a brief but highly choreographed meeting with the pope. And his interactions with European allies in Belgium and Italy will keep the president away from the country’s most difficult adversaries.
特朗普的第一次国事访问也考虑到了这一点。他的旅行将从沙特阿拉伯和以色列开始，这两个国家的领导人很高兴他当选总统。他将与教皇进行精心安排的简短会晤。而与比利时和意大利这两个欧洲盟国的互动将让他远离国内最棘手的对手。
Still, long trips are rarely error-free, and often presidents veer off the carefully constructed narrative for their trip.
不过，漫长的旅行很少不出差错，总统们经常偏离精心设计的访问安排。
President Bush once tried to leave after a news conference in Beijing, only to find the ornate door he was trying to go through locked. “I was trying to escape. Obviously, it didn’t work,” he joked later.
有一次，布什总统在北京的一次新闻发布会后试图离开，结果发现，他打算穿过的那扇华丽的门是锁着的。“我试图逃跑。显然没有成功，”他后来开玩笑说。
Mr. Bush’s father, President George Bush, threw up during a ceremonial dinner in Japan. And President Bill Clinton was caught during a trip in Senegal banging a bongo drum, strumming a guitar and chomping on a cigar — all in celebration of a judge’s decision throwing out a sexual harassment lawsuit.
布什总统的父亲乔治·布什总统在日本的一次正式晚宴上吐了。比尔·克林顿总统(Bill Clinton)在塞内加尔访问期间被发现敲打邦戈小手鼓，弹吉他，咬着一根雪茄——这些都是为了庆祝法官裁定不受理对他的一起性骚扰诉讼。
Mr. Hadley said the first foreign trip for any president is especially a challenge, and perhaps more so for Mr. Trump, who has had little practice on the world stage and has often proved himself unwilling to stick to his prepared remarks.
哈德利表示，第一次国事访问不管对哪位总统都是特别的挑战，对特朗普来说，可能更是如此，因为他在国际舞台上几乎没有任何实战经验，而且经常证明自己不愿按照提前准备好的讲稿发言。
But Mr. Hadley said Mr. Trump should not be underestimated.
不过哈德利表示，特朗普不应被低估。
“Remember, Trump is a nothing if not a showman,” Mr. Hadley said. “He’s been very public for decades and very conscious about how he comes across in the media. This is not a novice on stages.”
“要知道，特朗普是一个善于表演的人，”哈德利说，“几十年来，他一直非常喜欢抛头露面，十分注意自己在媒体上的形象。他不是舞台上的新手。”