Donald J. Trump lashed out wildly on Tuesday in the aftermath of a disappointing first debate with Hillary Clinton, scolding the moderator, criticizing a beauty pageant winner for her physique and raising the prospect of an all-out attack on Bill Clinton’s marital infidelities in the final stretch of the campaign.
在与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的第一场辩论中表现不佳的唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)，于周二进行了疯狂的抨击，他责骂辩论的主持人，批评一名选美冠军的体形，同时让人们进一步相信，他在这场竞选的最终阶段将对比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的婚外情丑闻发起全面攻击。
Having worked assiduously in recent weeks to cultivate a more disciplined demeanor on the campaign trail, Mr. Trump decisively cast aside that approach on Tuesday morning. As Mrs. Clinton embarked on an ebullient campaign swing through North Carolina, aiming to press her newfound advantage, Mr. Trump vented his grievances in full public view.
最近几周，特朗普一直在坚持不懈地锻炼自己，以在竞选活动中表现出更自律的举止。而在周二上午，他果断地抛弃了这种努力。随着克林顿在北卡罗来纳展开一场精神抖擞的巡回竞选活动，试图加强自己新获得的优势，特朗普将自己的不满完全发泄于公众面前。
Sounding weary and impatient as he called into a Fox News program, Mr. Trump criticized Lester Holt, the NBC News anchor, for asking “unfair questions” during the debate Monday evening, and speculated that someone might have tampered with his microphone. Mr. Trump repeated his charge that Mrs. Clinton lacked the “stamina” to be president, a claim critics have described as sexist, and suggested that in the future he might raise Mr. Clinton’s past indiscretions.
在打电话参加福克斯新闻频道的一个直播节目时，特朗普听起来既疲倦又没有耐心，他指责NBC新闻频道主播莱斯特·霍尔特(Lester Holt)在周一晚上的竞选中问了些“不公平的问题”，还猜测有人可能对他的麦克风动了手脚。特朗普再次提起他之前的指控，即克林顿缺乏当总统的“耐力”。批评人士称这种说法是性别歧视，并提出他可能会拿比尔·克林顿过去的不检点做文章。
And defying conventions of civility and political common sense, Mr. Trump leveled cutting personal criticism at a beauty pageant winner, Alicia Machado, whom Mrs. Clinton held up in Monday night’s debate as an example of Mr. Trump’s disrespect for women.
特朗普无视礼貌与政治上的情理，对选美冠军艾丽西亚·马查多(Alicia Machado)进行了尖酸刻薄的人身攻击。在周一晚上的辩论中，克林顿提起她的遭遇，将之作为特朗普不尊重女性的例证。
Mr. Trump insisted on Fox that he had been right to disparage the former Miss Universe because of her weight.
特朗普在福克斯的节目中坚称，他有权因这位前“环球小姐”的体重问题而贬低她。
“She was the winner and she gained a massive amount of weight, and it was a real problem,” said Mr. Trump, who was the pageant’s executive producer at the time. “Not only that — her attitude. And we had a real problem with her.”
“她之前是冠军，后来体重大增，这的确是个问题，”特朗普说。他当时是该选美活动的监制。“不只是这个——还有她的态度。我们对她非常不满。”
Mr. Trump’s setback in the debate represents a critical test in the final six weeks of the presidential race. Having drawn closer to Mrs. Clinton in the polls, Mr. Trump now faces an intensified clash over his personal temperament and his attitudes toward women and minorities — areas of grave concern for many voters that were at the center of the candidates’ confrontation on Monday.
特朗普在辩论中受挫，标志着最后六周的总统选战中的一个关键挑战。他这段时间正拉近与克林顿的民调差距，如今却在他的个人性情与对待女性和少数族裔的态度上面临愈发炽烈的争论。这些方面属于两位候选人周一对抗的焦点，有众多选民极为关切。
Against Mr. Trump’s brooding, Mrs. Clinton cut a strikingly different profile on the campaign trail on Tuesday, emerging emboldened from her encounter with the Republican nominee. At a rally in Raleigh, N.C., Mrs. Clinton, brandishing her opponent’s debate stumbles, assailed Mr. Trump’s comments suggesting he avoided paying taxes and welcomed the 2008 financial crisis as a buying opportunity.
相较于特朗普的闷闷不乐，克林顿则因为与这位共和党提名人较量时的表现而受到鼓舞，周二在竞选活动中展现出了截然不同的风貌。在北卡罗来纳州罗利举行的一场集会上，克林顿突显了对手在辩论中的失误，抨击了特朗普的言论——他的那些话显示，他避免缴税，并将2008年的金融危机视作买入的好时机而加以欢迎。
“What kind of person would want to root for nine million families losing their homes?” Mrs. Clinton asked the lively crowd. “One who should never be president, is the answer to that question.”
“有什么样的人会想要为九百万家庭失去住所而叫好？”克林顿向表现活跃的观众发问。“永远不应该当上总统的人，就是这个问题的答案。”
Having shaken at least temporarily the malaise of the past month, Mrs. Clinton must now seek to gain a durable upper hand over Mr. Trump, who has drawn close to her in the polls with a more sharply focused message on trade, immigration and national security.
在过去一个月里身体微恙之后，克林顿至少暂时恢复了健康，她眼下必须寻求对特朗普的持续优势。凭借把自己的讯息更集中在贸易、移民与国家安全议题上，特朗普在民调中逐渐缩小了和她的差距。
Mr. Trump’s comportment on Tuesday threatened to forfeit his gains of the past month, and recalled his practice during the Republican primaries and much of the general election, of belittling political bystanders in language that alienated voters, like attacking the Muslim parents of an Army captain killed in Iraq and a Hispanic federal judge.
特朗普周二的言行有可能使他丧失在过去这个月中取得的进步，并让人回想起他在整个共和党初选阶段及在大选许多时间里的那种表现：其贬斥非党派人士的言论疏远了选民，比如对在伊拉克牺牲的一名陆军上尉的穆斯林父母的抨击，以及对一名西语裔联邦法官的指责。
It remains to be seen if Mr. Trump will approach the remainder of the race with the unfiltered abandon of his comments Tuesday morning. The fear among Republicans is that Mr. Trump will confront adversity by continuing to swing impulsively at politically inopportune targets, dragging the party again into needless and damaging feuds, as he did for most of the summer.
在选战的剩余时间里，特朗普是否会用周二上午发表言论时表现出的那种毫无保留的不克制态度来应对，这一点还有待观察。共和党人当中存在的忧虑是，特朗普面对逆境的反应会是不断心血来潮地把矛头指向政治上并不合适的目标，再次把共和党拖入既无必要又损失巨大的争斗，一如他在夏季大部分时候的所作所为。
The notion of raising Mr. Clinton’s infidelity is particularly controversial among Mr. Trump’s advisers, who have sent conflicting signals about that line of attack.
在特朗普的幕僚当中，是否提及比尔·克林顿不忠一事尤其存在争议。他们在这个攻击点上发出了相互矛盾的信号。
Kellyanne Conway, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, said in a CNN interview that he deserved credit for holding back from that particular subject, saying Mr. Trump had been “polite and a gentleman.”
特朗普的竞选经理凯莉安娜·康维(Kellyanne Conway)在接受CNN采访时表示他止步于这个特定话题的做法值得称道，并称特朗“表现礼貌，是位绅士”。
But Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former New York City mayor and a close confidant of Mr. Trump’s, called for a far harsher approach. Mr. Trump, he told a reporter for the website Elite Daily, had been “too reserved” in his confrontation with Mrs. Clinton.
然而，身为特朗普密友的纽约前市长鲁道夫·W·朱利亚尼(Rudolph W. Giuliani)则呼吁他采取一种无情得多的手法。朱利亚尼对“每日精英”网站(Elite Daily)的一名记者表示，特朗普在与克林顿交锋时“太收敛了”。
Mr. Giuliani, who like Mr. Trump is on his third marriage, recommended attacking Mrs. Clinton for having questioned Monica Lewinsky’s credibility in claiming an affair with Mr. Clinton, and he called Mrs. Clinton “too stupid to be president.”
朱利亚尼和特朗普同为三婚，他建议，既然克林顿在莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)宣称与她的丈夫有染之后反而质疑莱温斯基的可信度，就可以对此进行抨击。他还表示克林顿“蠢得当不了总统”。
Should Mr. Trump follow the path prescribed by Mr. Giuliani, it could transform the final six weeks of his candidacy into an onslaught of unrestricted personal vituperation — a risky course that would probably please Mr. Trump’s political base at the cost of his broader appeal.
假如特朗普按照朱利亚尼建议的道路前行，可能会将他最后六周的竞选变成充斥着个人辱骂的攻击模式——这种做法颇为冒险，大概会取悦特朗普的政治基础选民，但代价是丧失在更广泛选民中的吸引力。
For the moment, Mrs. Clinton answered Mr. Trump’s scattershot attacks with a dismissive shrug, telling reporters that Mr. Trump was free to run whatever kind of campaign he preferred. On board her campaign plane, she plainly relished her moment of apparent triumph, and poked fun at Mr. Trump’s morning lamentations.
眼下，克林顿以不屑一顾的姿态来回应特朗普发起的不成体系的攻击，告诉记者特朗普可以任意选择自己想要如何竞选。在竞选飞机上，她对看似已经拿下的胜利显然颇为满意，并对特朗普上午的那番发泄进行了取笑。
“Anybody who complains about the microphone,” she said, “is not having a good night.”
“只要是抱怨麦克风的人，”她说，“肯定是晚上过得不怎么样。”