HONG KONG — The strongest typhoon to hit Asia this year caused landslides in the Philippines and flooding in Taiwan on Saturday as it appeared headed toward the densely populated Pearl River Delta area of China, with the financial center of Hong Kong preparing for possible business shutdowns at the start of the workweek.
香港——今年袭击亚洲的最强台风似乎在向人口稠密的中国珠江三角洲地区移动，上周六，这场台风已在菲律宾引发了山体滑坡、在台湾引发了洪水。首个工作日到来之际，位于珠三角的金融中心香港正在为可能出现的商家停业情况做准备。
China’s National Meteorological Center issued a red alert — the highest-level warning — with the storm, called Super Typhoon Usagi, on a path to hit Guangdong Province, the industrial powerhouse at the heart of the Pearl River Delta. Coastal Zhejiang and Fujian Provinces were also covered by the alert.
名为“天兔”(Usagi)的强台风正在向珠江三角洲的工业强省广东移动，中央气象台发布了最高级别的红色预警。沿海的浙江和福建省也处于预警范围之内。
The storm, with a width of nearly 700 miles and carrying sustained winds of 139 miles per hour, battered the northern Philippine island of Luzon on one side while striking Taiwan on its north side, moving between the two on a path straight toward Hong Kong at the foot of the delta. It was expected to make landfall in the financial hub on Sunday night, although forecasters said it could veer from that course.
此次风暴的覆盖宽度接近700英里（约合1120公里），持续风力为每小时139英里，台风的一侧重创了菲律宾北部的吕宋岛，另一侧则袭击了位于它北部的台湾，并从二者之间穿过，直奔位于珠江三角洲下部的香港。台风预计将于周日晚间登陆这个金融中心，不过，也有预报称它可能会转变路径。
More than 2,000 people were evacuated from low-lying and mountainous areas of Taiwan out of fear of flooding and landslides, and powerful storm surges drenched fishing boats along the coasts of the island. In the Philippines, the typhoon caused power failures and evacuations, with landslides in the north of the country, but no fatalities were immediately reported.
出于对洪水和山体滑坡的恐惧，已有超过2000人被疏散出了台湾的低洼地区和山地，强大的暴风雨将浸透雨水的渔船抛上各处的海岸。在菲律宾，台风导致了电力故障和人员疏散，该国北部还发生了山体滑坡，但滑坡之后并没有立即出现伤亡的报道。
The Hong Kong Observatory said the storm would pose a “severe threat to Hong Kong.”
香港天文台称，风暴将“对香港构成严重威胁”。
“Engineers, architects and contractors should make sure that scaffoldings, hoardings, windowpanes and other temporary structures are secured,” the observatory said in a statement. “The public should remain vigilant, and take precautions against strong winds and flooding as early as possible.”
“工程师、建筑师和施工单位应当确保脚手架、展板、窗户玻璃和其他临时建筑的安全，”天文台在一份声明中称，“公众应当保持警惕，尽早采取预防强风和洪水的措施。”
In anticipation of the typhoon, Cathay Pacific Airways and the affiliated Dragonair canceled operations at its Hong Kong hub starting at 6 p.m. Sunday and said flight disruptions would probably continue into Monday.
为了预防台风，国泰航空(Cathay Pacific Airways )及其旗下的港龙航空(Dragonair)取消了周日晚6时起在香港机场的航班，并称航班中断多半会持续到周一。
“The airline is monitoring the situation closely and will issue further advice on the resumption of flight services,” Cathay said in a statement. “It is anticipated that disruptions will continue on 23 September due to the impact of adverse weather and operational constraints.”
“本航空公司正密切关注事态的发展，并将进一步通知航班服务恢复情况，”国泰在一份声明中称，“由于不利天气和航空管制的影响，预计航班中断将持续到9月23日。”
As the storm barreled toward mainland China, preparations were already under way, with more than 20,000 fishing boats moved to secure locations and 4,000 people evacuated from coastal areas of Fujian Province, state news media reported.
随着风暴冲向中国大陆，预防工作已在进行当中。据官方新闻媒体报道，有超过2万艘渔船被转移到了安全地点，并有4000人被撤离福建省的沿海地区。