HONG KONG — The captain of a ferry that collided with another passenger vessel in 2012, leaving 39 people dead in Hong Kong’s worst maritime accident in decades, was found guilty of manslaughter on Saturday.
香港——2012年，香港的一艘渡轮与一艘客轮相撞，导致39人丧生。这起事故是香港几十年里最严重的海难。周六，涉事渡轮的船长被判处误杀罪名成立。
Lai Sai-ming, captain of the Sea Smooth, a passenger ferry, was convicted of 39 counts of manslaughter by a Hong Kong jury. Chow Chi-wai, the captain of the other boat involved in the collision, was acquitted of manslaughter but convicted of the lesser charge of endangering the safety of others at sea, The South China Morning Post reported.
香港的一个陪审团宣布，渡轮“海泰号”的船长黎细明(Lai Sai-ming)的39项误杀罪名全部成立。根据《南华早报》的报道，涉事客轮的船长周志伟(Chow Chi-wai)的误杀罪名不成立，但其另一项较轻的危害他人海上安全的罪名成立。
The vessel captained by Mr. Chow, the Lamma IV, a passenger boat owned by an electric company, sank quickly after being struck by the Sea Smooth, a scheduled ferry, on the night of Oct. 1, 2012, China’s National Day holiday. The Lamma IV had been shuttling employees of the electric company and their family members from Lamma, an outlying island where the company operates a power station, to Hong Kong’s Central district to watch a holiday fireworks show. All 39 people who died were aboard the Lamma IV.
周志伟担任船长的客轮名为“南丫四号”，由一家电力公司拥有。2012年10月1日中国的国庆节假日当晚，“南丫四号”遭渡轮“海泰号”撞击，迅速沉没。“南丫四号”当时运送的是这家电力公司的员工及家属，从公司旗下一座电厂所在的离岛南丫岛出发，前往香港岛的中环去观看节日烟花表演。39名遇难者均为“南丫四号”的乘客。
The collision, which took place just off the coast of Lamma, was the deadliest maritime disaster in Hong Kong since 1971.
这起撞船事故发生在距离南丫岛海岸很近的水域，是香港1971年以来死亡人数最多的海难。
During the trial, Mr. Chow and his lawyers argued that they had followed international conventions for avoiding collisions at sea by turning to starboard, or to the right. That action was ineffective, his lawyers argued, because Mr. Lai, in contravention of the rules, had turned to port, or left, The Post reported. The Sea Smooth struck the port side of the Lamma IV, puncturing its watertight compartments.
庭审期间，周志伟及其律师指出，当时已按国际海上碰避规则右转。《南华早报》报道，周志伟的律师称，此举之所以无效，是因为黎细明违反规则左转。于是，“海泰号”撞上了“南丫四号”的左侧，导致其船舱进水。