HONG KONG — A 29-year-old British banker was charged with two counts of murder on Monday in the killings of two women at his upscale high-rise apartment.
香港——一名29岁的英国籍银行员工周一被指控犯有两项谋杀罪，他涉嫌在自己的高档高层公寓中杀死两名女子。
The Briton, Rurik George Caton Jutting, did not enter a plea when he was brought before Hong Kong’s Eastern Magistrates’ Courts on Monday morning. The police discovered the bodies early Saturday morning in his 31st-floor apartment, which is in a popular nightclub district. One woman had her throat slashed, and the other, dead for days, was stuffed in a suitcase on his balcony, according to police statements and court documents.
这位名叫鲁里克·乔治·卡顿·贾汀(Rurik George Caton Jutting)的英国人周一被带到香港东区裁判法院法官面前时，没有做出任何表示。警方周六凌晨在其位于31层的公寓中发现了尸体，公寓所在地是一个受欢迎的夜总会区。据警方陈述和法庭文件，一名女子被割喉，而另一名女子已死亡多日，尸体被塞进他家阳台上的一个行李箱中。
Mr. Jutting was identified as an employee of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, according to an employee who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation. A person with that name recently left the company, said Paul Scanlon, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for the bank.
贾汀被确认为美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)雇员，这条消息来自一位雇员，该人因事情的敏感性要求不具名。美银美林在香港的发言人保罗·斯坎伦(Paul Scanlon)说，一个叫那个名字的人最近从公司离职。
With days of beard growth and wearing a black T-shirt emblazoned on the front and back with the words “New York,” Mr. Jutting appeared expressionless as the charges were read to him in court. He was not handcuffed, and continuously rubbed his left forefinger against his right wrist as he stood behind an enclosure separated from the rest of the courtroom by metal bars.
法院向他宣读指控时，贾汀面无表情，他穿着正面和背面都饰有“纽约”字样的黑色T恤衫，脸上的胡子已经几天未刮。他没戴手铐，站在将他与法庭其他部分隔开的金属围栏后面，不断用自己的左手食指揉着右手手腕。
Mr. Jutting called the police at 3:42 a.m. Saturday and asked them to come to his apartment in the Wan Chai district of the city, the police said in a statement. When they arrived, officers found a woman between the ages of 25 and 30 with cuts on her throat and buttocks. She was pronounced dead at the scene.
警方在一份公报中说，贾汀在周六凌晨3点42分打电话报案，把警察叫到自己湾仔区的公寓。警察到达后，发现一名年约25至30岁的女子，她的颈部和臀部有刀伤。她被当场宣告死亡。
Later, the police found the second woman, decomposing with injuries to her neck, in the suitcase. That woman, identified in court documents as Sumarti Ningsih, was found to have died on Oct. 27, a court document shows. Ms. Sumarti was an Indonesian national from the Cilacap region in Central Java province, according to Sam Aryadi, a spokesman for the Indonesian Consulate in Hong Kong.
随后，警方在行李箱中发现了第二名女子，她颈部有伤，尸体已开始腐烂。这名女子在法庭文件中被认定为宁西·苏玛缇(Ningsih Sumarti)，法庭文件显示她死于10月27日。印度尼西亚驻香港总领事馆的发言人山姆·阿里亚迪(Sam Aryadi)表示，苏玛缇是来自中爪哇省芝拉扎地区的印尼公民。
One resident of Mr. Jutting’s apartment building, who would not give his name, said, “We noticed a strong smell about noon yesterday; it was like rotting fish or something. I think that was right before the police came, or right after, when they discovered the body.”
贾汀所在公寓楼中一位拒绝透露姓名的居民说，“昨天中午前后，我们闻到一股特别强的味道；像是烂鱼或那类东西发出的。我觉得那是警察到来之前、或之后，他们发现尸体的时候。”
A lawyer representing Mr. Jutting on Monday, Martyn Richmond, said the police wanted to reconstruct the crime scene as part of the investigation. Mr. Jutting is scheduled to appear in court again on Nov. 10.
贾汀的一位代理律师马汀·里士满(Martyn Richmond)周一说，作为调查工作的一部分，警方要重构犯罪现场。贾汀被安排于11月10日再次出庭。
According to Mr. Jutting’s profile on LinkedIn, he began his career at Barclays in 2008 after graduating from the University of Cambridge, where he studied history and law. He joined the London office of Bank of America Merrill Lynch in July 2010 and moved to the firm’s Hong Kong office in July 2013. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch employee said Mr. Jutting had resigned last Monday, though he remained in the company’s directory.
据贾汀在LinkedIn上的自我介绍，他曾在剑桥大学(University of Cambridge)读历史和法律，毕业后，于2008年在巴克莱(Barclays)银行开始了自己的职业生涯。他于2010年7月加入了美银美林的伦敦办公室，并于2013年7月调到该行的香港办公室。那位美银美林的知情人士说，贾汀已于上周一辞职，虽然他的名字仍在公司的通讯录中。
At the bank, Mr. Jutting was “well-regarded and a hard worker” who embraced the expatriate lifestyle when he arrived in Hong Kong, spending time traveling to neighboring countries in Southeast Asia on weekends, according to the employee. Mr. Jutting worked in the bank’s derivatives unit, where he arranged margin loans for clients of the bank.
据该知情人士说，贾汀在银行“受到好评，是一位努力工作的人”，来到香港后，他承袭了当地外国人的生活方式，在周末到邻近的东南亚国家旅游。贾汀曾在银行的衍生产品部门工作，为银行客户安排保证金贷款。
At Cambridge, Mr. Jutting was secretary for CLIO, the university’s history society and a member of the Peterhouse College, according an article in Varsity, a Cambridge University student newspaper. And a man by the name of Rurik Jutting contributed research to a Cambridge University Press book titled, “The UN and Human Rights: Who Guards the Guardians?”
据剑桥大学的学生报纸《Varsity》上的一篇文章，贾汀在剑桥时曾是大学历史社CLIO的秘书，是彼得屋学院(Peterhouse College)的学生。一位名叫鲁里克·贾汀的男子曾对剑桥大学出版社出版的名为《联合国与人权：谁来守护守护者？》的书籍有研究贡献。
But about a month before Mr. Jutting resigned from Bank of America Merrill Lynch, he stopped showing up for work regularly, the employee said, adding that other employees reported he had gained weight. On a Facebook profile under his name, the last post links to an article with the title, “Money DOES buy happiness: Growing wealth of Asian nations is making their people happier — but women are more content than men.”
但大约在贾汀从美银美林辞职前一个月，他开始不按时上班，该雇员说，还说其他银行员工发现他体重有所增加。在Facebook他名下的个人主页上，最后一个帖子给了一篇文章的链接，文章的标题是，“金钱的确能买幸福：亚洲国家日益增长的财富正让其人民更幸福——但女性满足程度比男性高。”
Homicides are rare in Hong Kong. In the first seven months of this year, just 14 homicides were recorded in this city of 7.2 million. By comparison, 256 homicides were recorded in New York City, with a population of 8.4 million people, through Oct. 19 of this year, according to the New York Police Department.
杀人案在香港很少见。在这座拥有720万人口的城市，今年头7个月中只有14起命案记录。相比之下，据纽约市警察局统计，截至10月19日，纽约今年已经发生了256起命案，纽约的人口是840万。
A Facebook profile that matched Mr. Jutting’s name and other details appears to reveal some of his private life. Those who “like” his photos are mostly people who have profiles indicating they are young women from the Philippines. One picture from July shows him with a young woman, with one person on Facebook identifying her as “Yanie.”
Facebook上与贾汀的名字和其他细节相符的页面似乎透露了一些有关他私人生活的东西。那些“赞”他的照片的人，大多是其页面表示自己是来自菲律宾的年轻女性。七月份的一张照片显示他与一名年轻女子在一起，Facebook上另一个人称呼她为“燕妮(Yanie)”。
“YANIE AND RURIK….RUYANIE FOREVER..” the person wrote, using an apparent combination of their names. The page was made unavailable later Monday.
那个人写道：“燕妮与鲁里克....鲁燕妮永远在一起..”显然用的是他们名字的组合。该页面在周一晚些时候已不能访问。