Hong Kong bowed Friday to years of pressure from environmental groups, saying it would no longer allow shark fin to be served at official functions.
迫于环保组织多年的压力，香港周五表示，不再允许官方场合供应鱼翅。
The authorities are “determined to take the lead and set a good example on this front,” a government statement said. The initiative goes “beyond the minimum expectation laid down” in the United Nations treaty that governs trade in threatened species, the statement said, and it also applies to bluefin tuna and black moss, a type of algae popular in Asian cuisine.
一份政府声明称，当局“决心在这个方面发挥带头作用，树立良好的榜样”。声明称，这一行动“超越了”联合国管理濒危物种贸易的公约“设定的最低要求”，并且同时适用于蓝鳍金枪鱼和发菜。发菜是一种海藻，是亚洲菜肴的流行材料。
Scientists estimate that as many as 100 million sharks are killed each year, mostly for their fins, which are typically served in soup. The practice is widely considered cruel and wasteful, because the sharks are often thrown overboard, finless, to die. Hong Kong is the world’s biggest trade hub for shark fins, representing about 50 percent of the trade.
科学家估计，每年有多达1亿条鲨鱼被杀，猎杀鲨鱼的目的主要是为了获取它们的鳍，它们的鳍往往被用来做汤。人们普遍认为这一做法既残忍又浪费，因为被割去鳍的鲨鱼通常会被扔出船外，任其死去。香港是全世界最大的鱼翅贸易中心，贸易量约占全球的一半。
In March, member nations of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, a United Nations treaty also known as Cites, called for trade in five shark species — oceanic whitetips, scalloped hammerheads, two other types of hammerheads, and porbeagles — to be carefully tracked and shown to have been conducted legally. That has put shark fin consumers in Hong Kong, on mainland China and elsewhere in an awkward spotlight.
今年3月，联合国濒危野生动植物种国际贸易公约（Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora，也称Cites）各成员国发出呼吁，希望各界小心追查五个物种的鱼翅交易，并证明其过程遵守了相关法规。这五个物种是远洋白鳍鲨、双髻锤头鲨、其他两种锤头鲨和鼠鲨。Cites的行动使得香港、中国内地和其他地方的鱼翅消费者尴尬地暴露在了聚光灯下。
Last year, China said it would prohibit official banquets from serving shark fin soup, but the measure was expected to need as many as three years to take effect, and even then, compliance may be uneven.
去年，中国表示要禁止官方宴会供应鱼翅羹，然而，该举措预计需要长达三年的时间才能生效，即使到那时，禁令履行情况也可能参差不齐。
Conservation groups hailed Hong Kong’s announcement, with Joshua S. Reichert, the executive vice president of the Pew Charitable Trusts, saying it was “particularly significant” because of Hong Kong’s role in the shark fin trade.
保护组织为香港的声明叫好，皮尤慈善信托基金(Pew Charitable Trusts)常务副总裁乔舒亚·赖克特(Joshua Reichert)说，鉴于香港在鱼翅交易中扮演的角色，这一次的声明“尤为重要”。
Black moss, a cyanobacterium known in Mandarin Chinese as fa cai, is being removed from official menus because of concerns that it is being overharvested in Mongolia and China, exacerbating desertification. Research has also suggested that it contains toxic amino acids.
发菜是一种蓝藻，和普通话里的“发财”谐音，由于担忧蒙古和中国对它的过度采集加剧土壤沙漠化，官方菜单正在取消这道菜。研究已经显示，它含有一些有毒的氨基酸。