多年来，香港的霓虹灯标识牌在本土电影中占有小小的一席之地，它在高志森1986年《痴心的我》当中为天台浪漫戏提供高高的红色背景，在王家卫1994年的《重庆森林》中为一个嘉宝式神秘人物的金发提供逆光。
Now the signs are starring in their own show online.
现在这些霓虹标识牌有了自己的网络展览。
They are the subject of the latest pop-up exhibition by M+, Hong Kong’s new visual art and culture museum, before the museum opens its physical doors in 2017 as part of the West Kowloon Cultural District, now under construction.
香港最新的视觉艺术与文化展览馆M+最近的临时展览上，这些霓虹标识牌成了主角。该馆要到2017年才正式开业，成为目前正在建设中的西九龙文化区的一部分。
This is M+’s seventh pop-up show, but its first online. Running until June 30, it is a tribute to neon signs and their place in the Hong Kong cityscape and imagination, from their heyday in the 1970s and 1980s to their fade-out in the last decade as LED signs took over.
这是M+的第七个临时展，不过是它第一次做网络展览。该展到6月30日结束，是向霓虹标识牌以及它们在香港的城市风光与想象中的地位致敬，时期从它们的全盛时期——20世纪70到80年代——直至过去十年它们黯然退场，被LED标识所取代。
Posted to NEONSIGNS.HK, and updated continuously, it showcases M+’s ambitions to blur artistic disciplines and to be global as well as local. The website includes photos, essays and slide shows by writers, artists, photographers and academics living and working in Hong Kong. A 12-minute video, “The Making of Neon Signs,” features interviews — in Cantonese with English subtitles — with longtime neon sign makers and takes viewers into their workshops.
展览发布在NEONSIGNS.HK网站，并持续更新，显示出M+突破艺术边界，既放眼全球，又兼顾本土的雄心。网站内容包括照片、文章和幻灯片，由生活工作在香港的作家、艺术家、摄影师和学者提供。一段12分钟的视频名为《霓虹标识牌的制作》，其中有若干访谈（粤语对话，英文字幕），走访了长期制作霓虹标识牌的匠人，带领观众走访了他们的工作室。
There is also an interactive map where users can upload pictures of neon signs and their location, as a sort of public documentation project of the vanishing craft.
网站还有互动地图，用户可以上传霓虹标识牌的照片和它们所在的位置，作为一种保存消失手工艺的公众记录计划。
Around the world, cities from Paris to Los Angeles to New York have fallen in and out of love with neon. But nowhere have the signs been as tightly clustered as in Hong Kong, or with the unique combination of traditional Chinese and English script, said Tobias Berger, the show’s co-curator.
在全世界的城市，从巴黎到洛杉矶到纽约，对霓虹灯都有过迷恋到抛弃的过程。但香港的霓虹标识牌是最密集的，或者说只有这里结合了繁体中文字和英文内容，这次展览的联合策展人托拜厄斯·伯格(Tobias Berger)说道
“There are very few things that are more iconic in Hong Kong than these streets of neon signs,” Mr. Berger said in a phone interview. Yet they are fast disappearing, some because of redevelopment and others because they can pose a danger in typhoons.
“没什么比街头的霓虹标识更像是香港的符号了，”伯格在电话采访中说。但它们正在迅速消亡，部分是由于城市的重新建设，部分是由于它们在台风中可能构成危险。
The exhibition came out of an effort by M+ to save some of these signs, as a sort of “animal shelter” for neon, said Mr. Berger, who was formerly chief curator at the Nam June Paik Art Center in Seoul, dedicated to the late avant-garde Korean artist. The museum has acquired several neon signs in danger of being destroyed — including a famous cow-shaped sign from Sammy’s Kitchen in Hong Kong’s Sheung Wan district — and is in negotiations to buy more.
展览的举办是由于M+挽救了一些这种标识牌，伯格说，它好像霓虹标识的“动物庇护所”。伯格曾是首尔白南淮艺术中心的总策展人，主攻最新的韩国前卫艺术。该博物馆取得了若干险些被破坏的霓虹标识，包括香港上环区萨米厨房(Sammy’s Kitchen)著名的奶牛形状标志。目前它还在协商购买更多。
“If they have to die, you take them, but you cannot take all of them,” said Mr. Berger, explaining the impetus for showing them online.
“如果它们必须消亡，你就可以买下它他们，但是你不能买下所有的，”伯格这样解释网上展览的动机。
In an essay for the exhibition, Keith Tam, a typographer and assistant professor at Hong Kong Polytechnic University, writes of how the neon signs, vertical and horizontal, in English and Chinese script, once protruded from buildings and wrapped around them, with each drugstore, bank or restaurant competing for attention, creating “a cascading effect.”
在为展览撰写的一篇文章中，印刷专家、香港理工大学的助理教授基思·谭（Keith Tam，音译）介绍了以垂直和水平方式书写的中英文霓虹标识当初曾经悬挂在建筑之外，或环绕建筑，遍布所有杂货店、银行和饭馆，想要吸引注意力，造成“一种成串倾泻的效果”。
In the video “The Making of Neon Signs,” a calligrapher named Fung Siu Wah explains how different professions favored different typography. “Some calligraphers’ style is honest. Businesses that value sincerity would commission these calligraphers,” Mr. Fung says. “Bone-setting clinics, martial arts clubs and sports clubs prefer the Northern Wei style, which makes a strong and powerful impression.”
在视频《霓虹标识牌的制作》中，一位名叫冯小华（Fung Siu Wah，音译）的书法家揭示了不同行业所青睐的样式。“有些书法家的风格很诚实，需要注重诚信的企业就会聘用这样的书法家，”他说，“正骨医院、武术馆和体育俱乐部喜欢魏碑体，给人强壮有力的感觉。”
Another short video shows Christopher Doyle, a cinematographer for films such as “Chungking Express,” talking about the unique quality of neon light, “which is colder than tungsten ... like the difference between a whore and a wife.”
另一段短视频拍摄了《重庆森林》的摄影师杜可风谈霓虹灯光的独特效果：“它比钨光灯冷……就像妓女和妻子之间的区别。”
He predicts that neon will make a comeback, somewhat like Polaroid and film.
他预言霓虹灯还会回潮，就像宝丽来照片和电影胶片一样。