Mitche Choi Wai-shan was 12 when she first performed, in elaborate makeup and costume, at a Cantonese opera house in Hong Kong.
蔡慧珊（Mitche Choi Wai-shan，音译）第一次表演是在12岁的时候，她化着精致的妆、穿着戏服，在香港一家粤剧院登台。
Amid crashing cymbals and actors performing flying kicks, she had to execute a 10-second hair-flinging maneuver — a circular swinging of the hair, tied in a ponytail — to express grief and frustration.
在洪亮的钹声中，其他演员们在表演飞腿踢，而她必须做一个长达10秒的甩发动作——扎成马尾的发辫，在空中转圈——用以表达悲痛和失落。
“The way to get the hair secured is to have it tightened really hard with a huge piece of fabric dampened with water,” Ms. Choi said. “It felt uncomfortable and I had to keep it on for the whole show.”
“为了不让假发掉下来，必须用浸湿的水纱紧紧的缠在头上，”蔡小姐说。“我觉得很不舒服，但在整场演出中都得这样绑着。”
Midway through the performance, she felt dizzy and sick; but 10 years and more than 30 opera performances later, she has learned to adapt: “I practice a lot more, so my body is more used to wearing the headgears and heavy costumes,” Ms. Choi, 22, said.
在演出的中途，她觉得头晕恶心；但10年来30多场戏的演出让她学会了适应：“练得多了，所以我的身体对勒头和沉重的戏服更适应了，”22岁的蔡小姐说。
She now averages two or three performances a year. This month, the University College London linguistics graduate will be among the first group of students entering a new Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in Chinese, and specifically Cantonese, opera at the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts.
目前，她平均每年进行两至三次表演。9月份，这位英国伦敦大学学院(University College London)的语言学毕业生成为首批在香港演艺学院(Academy for Performing Arts)攻读新设的艺术(Fine Arts)学士学位的学生，该学位以中文——具体而言是粤语——作为授课语言。
The four-year program is an extension of two-year diploma and advanced diploma courses already offered by the academy. “I think it is a sign of the times,” said Adrian Walter, the academy’s director. “In the past, practitioners of Cantonese opera studied the art form through an apprenticeship.”
这个为期四年的项目是两年制学位和学院已开设的高级文凭课程的延伸。“我认为这是时代的象征，”校长华道贤(Adrian Walter)说道。“在过去，粤剧从业者只能拜师学艺。”
“Now there is a need for a degree program because that is what society demands. Without that, you are not going to get young people committing to it,” he added. “Young people are smart now; they don’t invest their time and their money without something at the end of it.”
“现在，由于社会的需要，出现了对学位项目的需求。没有社会的需要，年轻人是不会投入到粤剧里的，”他补充说，“现在的年轻人很聪明，看不到回报，他们不会投入时间和金钱。”
The degree course offers two study streams. Students in the performance stream will attend acting classes, practice singing Chinese classics in the Southern Chinese dialect, and be taught the exaggerated acrobatic movements of Cantonese opera. Students in the music stream will specialize in the wind, string and percussion instruments used in the ancient art form. In their third and fourth years, students from both streams will go on internships with local opera troupes or government-run Cantonese opera promotion campaigns.
这个学位课程有两个专业方向。偏表演的学生将上表演课、练习用中国南方方言粤语唱经典中文戏目，且学校会教授粤剧中夸张的身段动作。偏音乐方向的学生将专门研究古典艺术形式中使用的管弦和打击乐器。在大三和大四的时候，这两个方向的学生都将到当地的剧团或政府举办的粤剧宣传活动中开展实习。
The academy has 15 staff members and has invited a further 15 practitioners, including veteran performers and musicians, to conduct master classes.
学院有15名教职工，并且又邀请了15名从业人士来教高级课程，其中包括经验丰富的表演家和音乐家。
“We all know the performing arts. You’ll never get a job because you have a degree,” Mr. Walter said. “But it shows that the person has been through a rigorous training program.”
“我们都知道什么是表演艺术。你不会因为有了一个学位就能找到工作，”华道贤说，“但学位意味着持有者已经接受了严格的训练。”
“I think what we are doing in many ways is that we are future-proofing it, to ensure that Cantonese opera doesn’t become an endangered art form, by keeping it relevant and reflecting the current times,” he said.
“我认为，从许多方面来说，我们在做的事都不会过时。为了确保粤剧不会沦为一种濒危的艺术形式，应当与时俱进，反映当前的时代，”他说。
The program, with a tuition fee of 42,000 Hong Kong dollars per year, or about $5,416, will be taught mainly in Cantonese and Mandarin, with some theory and interdisciplinary classes in English. The academy has received more than 20 applications but will admit only 8 to 10 students to the course this year.
该项目的学费为每年4.2万港币（约合5416美元），主要以粤语和普通话授课，一些理论知识和跨领域的课程将以英语授课。学院已经收到了超过20份申请，但今年的课程将只录取8至10名学生。
“We are looking for students who have some basic training in Cantonese opera,” said Boaz Chow, an instructor with the academy’s Center of Chinese Traditional Theater.
“我们在找的学生应当接受过一些粤剧的基本训练，”学院中国传统戏剧中心(Center of Chinese Traditional Theater)的教员周仕琛(Boaz Chow)说。
The first cohort of students will graduate in 2017, coinciding with the completion of a 2.6 billion dollar Chinese opera center in the city’s West Kowloon Cultural District. The Chinese opera, or Xiqu, center, will include a 1,100-seat main theater, a 400-seat small theater, a tea-house-style performance space, and an entire floor dedicated to education and training in Cantonese opera.
第一批学生将于2017年毕业，届时，坐落在香港西九龙文娱艺术区(West Kowloon Cultural District)、耗资26亿美元的中国戏曲中心也将竣工。中国戏曲中心的主剧场能容纳1100位观众，次剧场能容纳400位观众，表演空间为茶楼式风格，整个一层楼都用于粤剧教育和培训。
“The Western art forms are popular among the young in Hong Kong but I think Cantonese opera still has a great space and capacity for development,” said Paris Wong Hau-wai, artistic director of the Pine Moon Cantonese Cultural Arts Center, in Hong Kong, and one of the students admitted into the degree program. “Cantonese opera has once faced the problem of dying out but I believe it has already passed that phase.”
“西方艺术形式很受香港年轻人的欢迎，但我认为粤剧仍有很大的发展空间和能力，”作为香港松月花馆粤艺文化堂(Pine Moon Cantonese Cultural Arts Center)艺术总监，王候伟(Paris Wong Hau-wai)现已被该学位项目录取，他说：“粤剧曾面临过衰灭的危险，但我相信这个阶段已经过去了。”
Last year, the West Kowloon Cultural District Authority introduced what it hopes will be an annual event, the West Kowloon Bamboo Theater, a Cantonese opera program featuring a temporary bamboo theater, the traditional setting for Cantonese opera performances. The shows, put on to coincide with the Chinese New Year festivities, took place over a week in 2012 and three weeks in February this year.
去年，西九龙文娱艺术区当局推出了西九大戏棚(West Kowloon Bamboo Theater)这项活动，并希望它能发展为每年一次的盛会。戏棚是传统粤剧表演的舞台，而这是一项以当代戏棚为特色的粤剧节目。表演时间定在春节期间，在2012年持续了一周，今年2月为期3周。
“We attracted more than 100,000 people this year and quite a number of them are young people who have never seen a bamboo theater performance before,” Louis Yu Kwok-lit, the authority’s executive director of performing arts, said in an interview by telephone. The authority is looking to extend the season next year to two months, he said.
“我们今年吸引了10多万观众，其中许多是以前从未见过戏棚的年轻人，”表演艺术行政总监茹国烈(Louis Yu Kwok-lit)在一次电话采访中说。他说，当局正考虑把明年的戏棚季延长为两个月。
Efforts to promote Cantonese opera among the young in Hong Kong have gained momentum since 2009, when the art form was recognized by Unesco as an intangible cultural heritage.
在香港年轻人中推广粤剧的尝试，自2009年起获得了推动力，当时，粤剧这种艺术形式被联合国教科文组织(Unesco)认定为非物质文化遗产。
Since 2005, the University of Hong Kong has established a program to incorporate Cantonese opera into primary and secondary school curriculums. The project started in four schools in 2007 and has since expanded to more than 50.
自2005年以来，香港大学(University of Hong Kong)建立了一个项目，把粤剧融合到小学和中学的课程里。2007年，该项目在四所学校率先开始实施，目前已经推广到50多所学校。
Pupils learn about Cantonese opera through activities like reading scripts and watching live performances, as part of their Chinese language or Chinese literature studies.
学生们可以通过阅读剧本、观看现场演出等活动来了解粤剧，这也是他们学习中文或中国文学的一部分内容。
“After realizing that Cantonese opera offers students a different learning experience, local schools began showing support for the project,” said Dorothy Ng Fung-ping, an assistant professor at the Hong Kong University’s faculty of education, who has been the driving force behind the project.
“由于看到粤剧给学生们带来了不同的学习体验，本地学校开始表现出对该项目的支持，”该项目主要推动人、香港大学教育学院助理教授吴凤平(Dorothy Ng Fung-ping)说。
There are at least 40 opera troupes that put on regular performances in Hong Kong, she said, and the demand for shows is rising, with a growing number of venues available. In 2011, there were 2,266 Cantonese opera productions and 1,931 performances across public venues, according to the Xiqu yearbook of the International Association of Theater Critics.
她说，在香港至少有40家粤剧班子进行定期演出，而且对表演的需求正在增长，粤剧表演场馆的数量也在增加。据戏曲年鉴国际演艺评论家协会(International Association of Theater Critics)统计，2011年产生的粤剧作品有2266件，在公共场馆的表演共有1931场次。
“My concern is how Hong Kong educates and develops top-class artists, because the top practitioners of Cantonese opera are getting old and some have passed on,” Dr. Ng said. “Even if we have the audience and the venues, if we do not have the right mechanisms to produce top-level performers, then we have a problem.”
“由于顶尖粤剧表演家正在老去，而一些人已经过世，我担心香港如何才能教育和培育出一流艺术家，”吴博士说。“即使我们有观众、有场地，但如果我们没有培养一流表演家的合适机制，就会出现问题了。”