HONG KONG — There are breathtaking views of Victoria Harbor from a 23rd-floor apartment that recently sold for $722,000 in the new Le Riviera building. The high-end German appliances and marble countertops evoke European luxury. In the entrance of the building, colorful wire mesh sculptures by Spanish artists hang from the ceiling.
香港——远晴楼盘23层的一套公寓最近以560万港元（约合443万元人民币）的价格成交。住户可以俯瞰维多利亚港的美景。高端的德国设施和大理石台面则彰显着欧式奢华。在大楼入口处，几名西班牙艺术家设计的彩色金属丝雕塑从天花板垂挂下来。
There is just one catch. The apartment is only 275 square feet, with a bedroom just large enough to accommodate a double bed.
美中不足的是，这套公寓只有275平方英尺（约合25.5平方米），卧室刚刚挤得下一张双人床。
“If we don’t buy now, we might not be able to afford it later,” said Frank Wu, 60, the new owner of this so-called microflat in Shau Kei Wan, a former fishing village on the northeastern edge of Hong Kong Island.
“如果我们现在不买，以后可能就买不起了。”60岁的弗兰克·胡(Frank Wu)说。胡先生是筲箕湾这间“迷你户”的新主人。这里位于港岛东北部，曾是座渔村。
Real estate in Hong Kong defies logic. The city is one of the most expensive places in the world to live and it has smashed one real estate record after another for years. As property costs continue to soar, even once improbable living spaces are now getting snapped up at astronomical prices.
香港的房地产行情与常理相去甚远。香港是全球生活成本最高的城市之一，近些年来打破了一个又一个的房地产记录。随着楼价继续飙升，就连以前被认为不适宜居住的房屋也在遭到哄抢，而且售价达到了天文数字。
At Le Riviera, three-quarters of the units sold so far have been microflats like the one Mr. Wu purchased. And Hong Kong developers are putting smaller and smaller units on the market — one recently built 165-square-foot apartments.
到目前为止，远晴楼盘售出的公寓中有四分之三都是胡先生购买的这种迷你户。香港开发商正在推出越来越小的户型——有一家开发商最近建造了只有165平方英尺的单位。
But the housing boom, and the inequality it has exposed, has been taking a toll. The high property costs faced by young people added to simmering discontent that prompted tens of thousands to take to the streets in pro-democracy protests this autumn.
然而，楼市的繁荣及由此揭露的不平等问题也带来了负面影响。高企的居住成本加剧了年轻人当中一触即发的不满情绪，而这种不满促使数以万计的香港市民在今年秋季走上街头，举行亲民主抗议活动。
For many young adults who live packed and stacked in with their parents, it is becoming harder to imagine having a place to call their own. Rents have skyrocketed. And some here now worry that the real estate market could stumble, particularly if the United States Federal Reserve starts to raise interest rates next year. Lending in Hong Kong is tied to the American rates.
对于很多与父母挤在一起住的年轻人来说，拥有自己的空间变得越来越难以想象。租金也在不断飞涨。一些香港人在担心，房地产市场可能会出现动荡，特别是如果美联储(United States Federal Reserve)明年开始加息的话。香港的贷款利率与美国的利率直接挂钩。
Speaking in her office down the street from the Le Riviera, To Pui-lui, a real estate agent who has sold two units of similar size in the building, hints at looming trouble ahead. She recently advised her daughter, a doctor, against buying right now.
房地产经纪人杜蓓蕾（To Pui-lui, 音）售出了远晴楼盘中两套类似大小的公寓。她的办公地点与远晴在同一条街道上，她认为，麻烦正在迫近。她最近劝告当医生的女儿现在不要买房。
“It’d be disastrous if the price falls from such a high point,” Ms. To said.
“如果楼价从这么高的位置跌下来，那就是灾难，”杜蓓蕾说。
Since a low point of Hong Kong’s property market in 2003, average house prices have increased by more than 300 percent, according to data from the Centa-City Index, which is compiled by the real estate agency Centaline and the City University of Hong Kong.
房地产经纪公司中原地产与香港城市大学联合编制的中原城市指数(Centa-City Index)显示，自2003年香港楼市触底以来，住房均价已经上涨了逾300%。
Helping propel this rise has been Hong Kong’s thriving economy, which significantly expanded over the last 10 years after the rapid growth of China. Strong demand from wealthy mainland Chinese and limited land supply have also helped to prop up prices, although this effect has slowed since the government put into effect a series of cooling measures, like additional taxes paid on property purchases.
随着中国的高速发展，香港经济在过去10年中大幅扩张，成为房价上涨的助推器。内地富人的强劲需求，加上香港地区有限的土地供应，也在一定程度上抬高了房价。不过，政府实施了一系列的降温举措，比如购房需要额外缴纳税款，从而令这种影响有所缓和。
First-time buyers now dominate the market, spurred on by the ultracheap interest rates.
在超低利率的刺激下，首次购房者成为香港楼市的主导力量。
“The mortgage rate is below 2 percent, so it is very attractive for the buyers,” said Patrick Wong, a property analyst at BNP Paribas. At Le Riviera, only one buyer so far did not need a mortgage, according to Hip Shing Hong, the project’s developer.
巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)地产分析师黄智亮(Patrick Wong)表示，“按揭利率现在不到2%，对购房者非常有吸引力。”远晴项目开发商协成行集团称，截至目前，远晴只有一位购房者不需要按揭贷款。
Mr. Wu, a retired structural engineer who lives in the Mid-Levels, a more expensive part of Hong Kong Island, bought his microapartment as an investment. He already has a potential tenant, a Canadian woman whose family lives in the neighborhood, and said he planned to charge about 16,000 Hong Kong dollars, or more than $2,000 per month.
胡先生是一名退休的结构工程师，他住在楼价更贵的半山区，购买迷你户是为了投资。他已经找到了一个潜在租户，一名加拿大女人，她的家人住在这个社区。胡先生表示，他打算每月收取1.6万港元的租金。
Many middle-income families now populate areas away from Hong Kong’s center, in neighborhoods like Kowloon East, where the commute is longer but prices are cheaper. In Tseung Kwan O, a neighborhood to the northeast in the New Territories, new properties have recently sold for as little as 10,000 Hong Kong dollars, or $1,290, per square foot, about half that of the units at Le Riviera. Even in these neighborhoods, though, prices have been lifted by the overall market.
很多中等收入的家庭现在住在远离市中心的地方，比如九龙东等地，那里的通勤距离较长，但价格比较便宜。在位于新界东北部的将军澳，新楼盘最近的售价只有每平方英尺1万港元，相当于远晴公寓售价的一半。不过即便是在这些区域，楼价也被市场的整体行情拉高了。
But the frenzy in Hong Kong’s property market may soon fade. The Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the United States dollar, so the interest rate policies are linked. When rates go up, those who have borrowed money to finance new homes will feel the effects as their mortgage payments rise. This concern is more pronounced in Hong Kong, where mortgages are not set at a fixed rate.
不过，香港的楼市热潮可能很快就会消退。港元汇率与美元挂钩，因此利率政策也相互关联。利率走高时，贷款买房的人就会感受到这种影响，他们的还款负担就会加重。这种担心在香港更为明显，因为香港的按揭贷款不是按固定利率设定的。
“They are making themselves slaves to the property market,” said Nicole Wong, a property analyst at CLSA.
里昂证券(CLSA)的房地产分析师王艳(Nicole Wong)说，“他们把自己变成了楼市的奴隶。”
Many Hong Kong residents still remember the last property bust, which was set off by the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. As Hong Kong’s economy took a hit, unemployment rose and deflation set in, chilling prices. The outbreak of SARS in late 2002 exacerbated the descent in prices. By mid-2003, property prices had hit rock bottom.
许多香港居民仍然对上世纪90年代末亚洲金融危机爆发时，房地产泡沫破裂的景象记忆犹新。由于香港经济受到重创，失业率上升，通货紧缩，楼价也开始降低。2002年末，非典疫情的爆发更是加剧了价格的下跌。到2003年中期，房价已经跌到谷底。
Ms. Wong remembered visiting a foreclosed apartment in 2003 where the family’s belongings had been left behind. Childrens’ backpacks were still on the table, their homework half finished, she recalled. In another room, she spotted gambling tickets.
王艳记得，2003年，她走访了一套被没收抵债的公寓。那户人家的东西都没能带走。她回忆道，孩子的背包还放在桌上，家庭作业只做了一半。在另一间屋子里，她看到了彩票。
“It was a shocking, shocking experience,” she said. “You could see all that struggle of a family right before they were taken away.”
“那是一种非常、非常令人震惊的经历，”她说。“你可以看到这家人在被带走之前的所有挣扎。”
Developers seem undeterred for now. They continue to build new properties, increasingly with incentives like tax waivers, which can amount to as much as a 10 percent discount. Microapartments are a small part of the offerings, but they are growing, with a handful of developers jumping in. This is partly because the overall price tag looks cheaper than bigger units — especially farther afield from Hong Kong Island — making them more affordable to a wider swath of buyers.
目前，开发商似乎并不担心。它们仍在继续修建新楼盘，而且还因为税收减免等激励措施而愈演愈烈，而税收减免的力度可高达10%。迷你户只是他们推向市场的一小部分房屋，不过迷你户的数量正在增多，而且还有一些开发商正在加入。部分原因在于，迷你户的总价看起来比大户型更低——尤其是在远离港岛的地区——所以对于更大范围的购房者而言，这种房子更容易负担。
Even by Hong Kong standards, the latest apartments offered by Li Ka-shing, Asia’s richest tycoon, are remarkably small. At Mont Vert, developed by Mr. Li’s company Cheung Kong Properties, some units range from 165 square feet to 196 square feet.
即使按照香港的标准，亚洲首富李嘉诚(Li Ka-shing)最近推出的公寓也小得惊人。在李嘉诚的公司长江实业所开发的岚山楼盘里，一些公寓的面积只有165平方英尺到196平方英尺。
Prospective buyers interested in a recent batch of similar units were not even able to see them before they agreed to buy, a common occurrence in Hong Kong.
最近一批这样的公寓发售时，潜在买家在同意购买之前，甚至不能提前看看房子。这种情况在香港很常见。