HONG KONG — Ship Street is quintessentially Hong Kong, even serving as the backdrop to several local movies.
香港——船街拥有典型的香港风情，甚至成为了几部当地电影的背景。
There is a well-preserved three-story building from the 1920s, now a cigar lounge. Next door is a towering glass-and-steel apartment complex. There is a New York-style pizzeria, a pastry shop and a mom-and-pop hardware store.
这里有一栋1920年代的三层楼建筑，保存完好，现在是一个雪茄馆。隔壁是一座高耸的钢铁玻璃结构住宅综合体。街上还有一家纽约风格的比萨饼店、一家糕点店和一家卖五金的夫妻店。
But when viewed through a smartphone camera, Ship Street can look downright creepy.
但是，当你用智能手机摄像头看它时，船街可能会让人毛骨悚然。
Building on the success of Pokémon Go, a local company has created a smartphone app that superimposes property listings on street views. Point your phone at a building and the units for rent or sale pop up, complete with prices.
一家本地公司受《精灵宝可梦Go》(PokémonGo)成功的启发，开发了一个智能手机应用，将房产信息叠加在街景上。把你的手机对准一栋建筑物，就会弹出正在出租或出售的住宅单位，以及相应的价格。
But on occasion, cartoon ghosts appear next to an apartment tower, representing an unnatural or unexplained death that took place there.
但有时，卡通幽灵会出现在公寓楼旁边，代表在那里发生过不正常或不明原因的死亡事件。
In Hong Kong, this is a big deal. Many people believe that living in a place where someone committed suicide or, worse, was murdered, brings all sorts of bad fortune. Those units, even years after such a death occurred, are discounted around 20 percent, sometimes 50 percent if the death was particularly gruesome.
在香港，这很重要。很多香港人认为，住在有人自杀甚至被谋杀的地方，会带来各种各样的坏运气。即使在死亡事件发生后的几年，凶宅的价格也会比市价低大约20%，如果凶案特别可怕，有时甚至会低50%。
Real estate is a topic that dominates dinner conversations, newspaper headlines and career choices here. Asif Ghafoor, a transplant from London whose company, Spacious, created the search tool, said Hong Kongers looking for a place to live asked the same questions as people anywhere: Is it near the subway? How is the view? Is there a gym? The app has filters for all of those things.
房地产是饭桌闲聊、报纸头条和职业选择的重要主题。阿西夫·加福尔(Asif Ghafoor)从伦敦搬来香港，他的公司千居(Spacious)创建了这个搜索工具。加福尔说，像其他地方的人一样，寻找住所的香港人也会问同样的问题：位置在地铁附近吗？景色如何？有健身房吗？该应用有所有这些条件的过滤器。
But there is one other question that Mr. Ghafoor found to be just as important, if not more so: Is it haunted?
但加富尔发现，还有一个问题就算不是更重要，也和前面提到的一样受重视，那就是：闹鬼吗？
On and around Ship Street, in the Wan Chai neighborhood of Hong Kong, terse captions under the ghosts tell a sad tale.
在湾仔船街及其附近，卡通幽灵下方的简短标题讲述着悲伤的故事。
In one complex, “a man in his 60s jumped off the building.” At another: “Single male burnt charcoal,” referring to carbon monoxide poisoning, a common method of suicide here.
在其中一片建筑楼里，“六旬老人跳楼自杀”。另一条写道：“单身男子烧炭亡”，这是指二氧化碳中毒，在这里是一种常见的自杀方式。
Mr. Ghafoor said the captions mirrored, as closely as possible, deaths that had been reported in local newspapers or by the police. Most of the ghosts seem to refer to suicides; Hong Kong has one of the lowest homicide rates in the world.
加富尔表示，这些标题尽可能接近地反应了当地报纸或警方通报的死亡事故。大多数鬼魂似乎都与自杀有关；香港是世界上杀人率最低的地方之一。
But Ship Street is also where the city’s highest-profile murders occurred in recent years: the killings of two Indonesian women by a British banker in the fall of 2014, on the 31st floor of the glass-and-steel J Residence.
但船街也是这个城市近年来最引人注目的谋杀事件的发生地：2014年秋，两名印度尼西亚女子被一名英国银行家在他位于嘉荟轩(J Residence)31层的公寓内杀害。
Mr. Ghafoor said that, on average, 1 to 2 percent of apartments for sale have had an “incident,” and that as a result, they sell at a discount of up to 20 percent.
加富尔表示，平均1%到2%的在售公寓发生过“事故”，结果是它们的售价打折多达20%。
For Jin Peh, a feng shui teacher and the author of “Feng Shui: A Hong Kong Perspective,” a property below market price is a bad sign rather than a bargain. He recommends avoiding living where an unnatural death has occurred. In general, the principles of feng shui relate to the flow of energies in nature. An unnatural death can cause excess negative energy, Mr. Peh said in a telephone interview.
在《风水：一种香港视角》(Feng Shui: A Hong Kong Perspective)一书的作者、风水师白谨（Jin Peh，音）看来，低于市场价的房产是个不好的迹象，而非意味着一桩好买卖。他建议避免住在曾经发生过非自然死亡事故的房屋内。一般而言，风水的原则与自然界的能量流动有关。白谨在接受电话采访时表示，非自然死亡事故会带来过多的负能量。
The consequences of this depend on your personal beliefs, he said, but for traditional Chinese, the worst-case scenario is becoming “possessed” by the spirit or ghost. He recalled friends of friends who started hearing voices shortly after moving into an apartment. The voices told them to jump from the building — which is how the previous occupant ended his life.
他说，事件造成的后果取决于你的个人信仰，但对传统中国人来说，最糟糕的情况是被幽灵或鬼魂附体。他记得朋友的朋友在搬进一套公寓后不久开始听到一些声音。那些声音让他从这栋楼跳下去——之前那位住户就是这样结束了自己的生命。
“Maybe they are just being delusional,” Mr. Peh said, “but they hear voices trying to persuade them to repeat the same mistake.”
“或许他们只是产生了幻觉，”白谨说。“但他们听到有声音在劝他们重复同样的错误。”
In less extreme cases, the tenants’ well-being will suffer: They will become more prone to emotional issues, mood swings and depression, he said.
在一些相对不那么极端的情况下，房客的健康可能会受损：他说他们会变得更容易出现感情问题、情绪波动和抑郁。
Sometimes, the circumstances surrounding a death are so grim that it affects the value of entire floors or buildings.
有时，一起死亡事故的情况如此可怕，会影响整层楼或整栋楼的价格。
For 13 years, the site of Hong Kong’s gruesome “Hello Kitty” murder remained abandoned. In 1999, Fan Man-yee, a nightclub hostess, was kidnapped by three men and held hostage in an apartment in a multistory building. The men tortured her for more than a month until she died. Her body was dismembered, and her skull was found inside a giant Hello Kitty doll.
尽管事情已经过去13年，但恐怖的“Hello Kitty”藏尸案的发生地依然废弃着。1999年，夜总会女招待樊敏仪被三名男子绑架，关在一座高层建筑内的一套公寓里。三名男子折磨了她一个多月，直到她死亡。她的尸体遭到肢解，颅骨被藏在一个巨大的Hello Kitty玩偶中。
The perpetrators were sentenced to life in prison. The apartment was vacant for years. No one would rent it. No one would buy it. They said it was haunted. In 2012, the entire building was finally demolished.
三名罪犯被判终生监禁。这套公寓空置了多年，没人敢租住，也没人敢买它。他们说怕它会闹鬼。2012年，整栋楼最终被拆除。
Mr. Ghafoor said that while there was no hard and fast rule that real estate agents must tell prospective buyers or renters about unnatural deaths, the local regulator has a code of conduct that says agents must serve their clients with “honesty, fidelity and integrity.”
加富尔表示，没有硬性规则要求房产中介必须告知潜在买家或租户房子里是否发生过非自然死亡事件，但地方监管机构有一套行为准则，要求中介对待客户必须“诚实、守信和正直”。
Real estate companies keep close tabs on supposedly haunted properties. One site, Squarefoot.com, maintains a macabre list. Banks are reluctant to provide mortgages for such properties, meaning sellers have to find buyers willing to pay cash. That makes the discount almost self-fulfilling: All-cash transactions command a discount here because of the small number of people who don’t need a mortgage.
房地产公司密切关注据称为凶宅的房屋。Squarefoot.com这个网站就列出了一份令人毛骨悚然的名单。银行不愿为这类房屋提供抵押贷款，这意味着卖家必须找愿意付现金的买主。这导致打折几乎是必然的：在这里，全现金交易要求打折出售，因为不需要抵押贷款的人较少。
For those who are not superstitious — real estate agents point to expatriates and young people — moving into a “haunted” home can take some of the sting out of buying or renting in Hong Kong, the city with the least affordable housing in the world.
对那些不迷信的人——房地产中介指的是外籍人士和年轻人——来说，搬进“闹鬼”的房屋能减轻在香港买房或租房的一些痛苦。香港是全球房价最贵的城市。
“I’ve started looking and found it’s insanely expensive in this city,” says Harry Edwards, 27, a lawyer who recently moved to Hong Kong from Australia. On a recent day, he was wandering around the trendy neighborhood of Sheung Wan, trying out the Spacious app. He said he didn’t subscribe to superstitions “whatsoever.”
“我已经开始看房了，发现这座城市的房价高得离谱，”27岁的律师哈里·爱德华兹(Harry Edwards)说。他最近刚从澳大利亚搬来香港。前不久的一天，他一边在潮流地区上环闲逛，一边试用千居那款应用。他说自己不相信迷信“这类东西”。
“I actually think it would be great to say, ‘I live in a haunted house,’ ” he said.
“我真觉得说‘我住在一栋鬼屋里’听起来很了不起，”他说。
There are many to choose from. A quick wave of the app in Hong Kong’s North Point neighborhood reveals a world of tragedy. The little white ghosts pop up next to many of the area’s towering apartment complexes.
有很多房屋可供选择。在香港北角地区快速挥一挥该应用，便会发现那里发生过大量悲剧。在该地区很多高耸的公寓楼旁边都会弹出白色的幽灵。
In one, a part-time tennis trainer “killed and stabbed his wife after an argument, jumped off the building.” In another: “Female drowned herself in bathtub.” Next door: “Old male jumped off the building.”
在其中一处房屋里，一名兼职网球教练“在和妻子发生争执后将其刺死，后跳楼自杀。”在另一套房子里：“女子头浸浴缸自杀亡”。隔壁：“老年男子跳楼亡。”
Even some people who might benefit from higher home prices acknowledge the power of superstition here.
即便一些可能会从更高的房价中获益的人也承认迷信在这里的力量。
After more than 30 years in the real estate business, Lily Wong, a local agent, knows that most Chinese clients are not interested in even looking at haunted apartments. “They wouldn’t rent, they wouldn’t buy,” she said.
当地的房地产中介莉莉·黄(Lily Wong)已投身房地产行业30多年。她知道，大部分中国客户对凶宅连看看都不感兴趣。“他们不会租，不会买，”她说。
She counts herself among that group. “I can’t stay in a flat that they said is haunted,” she said. “It’s so creepy.”
她把自己也归入这个群体。“我不能住在一套他们说闹鬼的公寓里，”她说。“太吓人了。”