Fire blazed through an ancient Tibetan town in southwest China on Saturday, destroying hundreds of wooden homes and shops that have drawn tourists to an area that has cast itself as the inspiration for mythic Shangri-la.
上周六，中国西南部一藏族古镇发生大火，导致数以百计的木构房屋及商铺被毁，这些房屋一直吸引着游客前往这个自称为香格里拉秘境灵感来源的地方。
Chinese television news said the fire in Dukezong in Shangri-la County, Yunnan Province, broke out in the early hours and hundreds of firefighters, soldiers and volunteers had largely extinguished the blaze by late morning. There were no deaths or serious injuries reported, initially at least, according to local officials. Yet even without casualties, the fire will deal a heavy blow to a community that has sought to protect its traditions while attracting growing crowds.
中国电视媒体称，云南省香格里拉县独克宗凌晨发生火灾，截至当天近午，数百消防员、士兵和志愿者已经基本上将火扑灭。当地官员表示尚无死亡或重伤报告，至少在最初阶段是如此。然而，即便没有人员伤亡，此次火灾也将给该地区带来沉重打击。在吸引越来越多游客的同时，该地区一直在设法保护其传统。
Dukezong is an ancient Tibetan neighborhood of two- and three-story wooden buildings on narrow, cobbled streets. With some 3,000 permanent residents, it lies next to a much larger, modern town, also called Shangri-la, which is dominated by Han Chinese residents and drab modern buildings. The broader area is called Gyaitang Zong in Tibetan. The Shangri-la area is called Gyalthang in Tibetan.
独克宗是一个藏族古镇，铺有鹅卵石的狭窄街道两边矗立着两三层高的木构建筑。该古镇大约有3000名常住居民，与一个比它大很多、也被称为香格里拉的现代城镇相邻。香格里拉镇的居民大多是汉族人，建筑以土褐色的现代房屋为主。这片广阔的区域在藏语中被称为中甸县(Gyaitang Zong)。香格里拉地区的藏语也是Gyalthang。
“After the fire broke out, even though many rushed to help at the first instant, the dry conditions and the speed of the blaze allowed it to spread rapidly in all directions,” said a report on the news website of the Yunnan government, citing officials in the county.
云南政府新闻网站的报道援引该县官员的话称，“火灾发生后，虽然多方力量第一时间参与救援，但是由于天干物燥，火情迅速向四周蔓延。”
The initial reports gave only a sketchy estimate of damage. Xinhua, the state-run news agency, said hundreds of dwellings were apparently destroyed. Pictures on Chinese news websites and social media services showed the fire tearing through the town, flames reaching into the sky, and an aftermath of smoky ruins and collapsed homes. About 100 homes burned down, wrote one user of Sina.com Weibo, a popular Chinese microblog service, who said she was in the area.
最初的报道只给出了粗略的损失估计。官方通讯社新华社称，被毁住宅似乎已达数百所。中国新闻网站及社交媒体发布的图片显示，大火蔓延至整个古镇，火光冲天，还显示了火灾之后的冒烟废墟和倒塌房屋。中国微博服务平台新浪微博的一名自称在现场的用户写道，大约有100所房屋被烧毁。
Jeff Fuchs, a writer and trekking guide who has a home in the ancient town, said by email that he was away from the area now but feared his home was destroyed.
作家和徒步旅行向导杰夫·富克斯(Jeff Fuchs)的家就在古城，他通过电子邮件说，他已离开该地区，但他担心自己的家已被烧毁。
“Just devastating damage to structures,” wrote Mr. Fuchs. “My home is finished I think, and because of the wooden structures, the place went up in no time.”
富克斯说，“火灾对建筑物的毁坏十分彻底。我想我的家完了，因为建筑物都是木构，整个地方马上就烧了起来。”
Shangri-la County lies in a high corner of Yunnan near the official Tibetan Autonomous Region. Previously called Zhongdian, it adopted the name in 2001, claiming to be an inspiration for the paradise featured in James Hilton’s novel, Lost Horizon. (Several other Tibetan parts of China have jostled to claim the same.) The area also has a Tibetan Buddhist monastery, which lies on a hill some way from the ancient Dukezong quarter.
香格里拉县高踞于云南省一角，靠近官方划定的藏族自治区。这个地区之前被称为中甸，于2001年改用现在的名字，理由是本地区给詹姆斯·希尔顿(James Hilton)的小说《消失的地平线》(Lost Horizon)描绘的伊甸园带来了灵感（中国藏区的其他几个地方也在争夺“香格里拉”的称号）。此地还有一座藏传佛教寺庙，坐落在独克宗古城外不远处的一座山上。
In recent months, several monasteries in Tibetan areas of China have caught fire, including one in Sichuan Province this week, according to Chinese news reports. The largely wooden buildings can be especially vulnerable in dry winter months, when candles and wood-fired heaters are heavily used.
据中国新闻媒体报道，近几个月，中国藏区已有几座寺庙发生火灾，包括本周在四川省发生的一起火灾。在干燥的冬季，由于大量使用蜡烛和以木头为燃料的加热设备，这些大部分为木构的建筑格外易于遭受火灾。
In recent years, growing numbers of Chinese and foreign tourists have traveled to the Shangri-la area. But numbers are typically down in January, when the air can be bitingly cold and thin in the mountainous area, which is more than 9,800 feet above sea level. Officials were still investigating the cause of the fire, said the Yunnan government’s news website.
近些年，到香格里拉地区旅游的中外游客日益增多。不过，1月份的游客人数通常会下降，因为这片山区的海拔超过9800英尺（将近3000米），空气在此时会变得极其冷冽稀薄。云南省政府的新闻网站表示，官员们依然在调查火灾的起因。