HONG KONG —  A Hong Kong woman convicted of beating and threatening her Indonesian maid was sentenced to six years in prison on Friday, in a case that focused attention on the treatment of domestic servants here.
香港——周五，一名因殴打并威胁自己的印度尼西亚女佣而被判有罪的香港女子被判处六年徒刑，此案引起了人们对香港家政工人待遇问题的关注。
Law Wan-tung, 44, was found guilty earlier this month of assaulting Erwiana Sulistyaningsih, 24, who cleaned her house and lived in a closet in her apartment for eight months. During the trial, Ms. Erwiana recounted the various ways she said Ms. Law abused her, including shoving a vacuum cleaner tube into her mouth, fracturing two of her teeth with a blow to the face, putting her on a diet of bread and rice and forcing her to urinate into a plastic bag or bucket to avoid dirtying the toilet.
本月早些时候，44岁的罗允彤因殴打其24岁的印尼女佣艾维亚纳·苏里斯特亚宁斯(Erwiana Sulistyaningsih)被判有罪。女佣的工作是打扫房间，她在雇主公寓的一个壁橱里住了长达8个月。在庭审中，艾维亚纳讲述了罗允彤虐待自己的各种方式，包括把吸尘器的管子塞进她嘴里，重击她的脸部导致她两颗牙齿断裂，只给她面包和米饭吃，并强迫她用塑料袋或水桶小便，以免弄脏厕所。
In announcing the sentence, which also included a fine that amounted to less than $2,000, Judge Amanda Woodcock told Ms. Law that her behavior was contemptible, Radio Television Hong Kong reported. The maximum sentence that can be imposed in Hong Kong’s district courts, where Ms. Law was tried, is seven years.
据香港电台的报道，法官阿曼达·伍德科克(Amanda Woodcock)在宣布判刑时，对罗允彤说，她的行为很卑劣。判决还包括1.5万港元（约合1.2万元人民币）的罚款，合不到2000美元。在罗允彤受审的香港地区法院，最高可判的刑期是七年。
In a statement, Ms. Erwiana said that she was unhappy that Ms. Law was not punished more severely.
艾维亚纳在一份声明中表示，她对罗允彤没有受到更严厉的惩罚感到不满。
“Giving her the guilty verdict is one thing, but giving her this light sentence is another,” she said. “This sentencing may send a wrong signal to employers who mistreat or violate the rights of their domestic workers.”
她说，“给她定罪是一回事，但给她这么轻的判决是另一回事。这个判决可能会向虐待或违反家政工人权利的雇主发出一个错误信号。”
Ms. Erwiana said she was never paid for her work, apart from the equivalent of less than $10 that she was given the day Ms. Law sent her back to Indonesia. On that day, in January of 2014, Ms. Law put her in a diaper because Ms. Erwiana was too weak to go to the toilet, dressed her in six layers of clothes to hide her emaciated body and slathered her face in makeup to hide the bruises, according to testimony at the trial. The taxi driver who drove them to the airport testified that Ms. Erwiana smelled of urine and feces.
艾维亚纳说，罗允彤从来没有给她发过工资，只是在她被送回印尼那天，给了她不到10美元。那是在2014年1月，据审理时提供的证词，罗允彤让艾维亚纳穿上尿布，因为她太虚弱无法去上厕所，还给她穿了六层衣服来掩盖她瘦弱的身体，给她的脸化了妆以隐藏瘀伤。开车带他们去机场的出租车司机作证说，他闻到了艾维亚纳身上有屎尿味。
The abuse came to light after photos of Ms. Erwiana taken in an Indonesian hospital caused an uproar in both Indonesia and Hong Kong.
印尼一家医院拍摄的艾维亚纳的照片揭露了她遭受虐待的真相，在印度尼西亚和香港引起轩然大波。
More than 300,000 women, mostly from Indonesia and the Philippines, work as domestic servants in Hong Kong. By law, they are relegated to second-class status, forced to live with their employers, often in tiny flats such as Ms. Law’s 592-square-foot apartment. Their minimum pay comes to $530 a month, an amount that, when their long hours are factored in, is far less than Hong Kong’s minimum wage. Ms. Erwiana testified that she regularly worked 20-hour days, with no days off.
有30多万大多来自印度尼西亚和菲律宾的女性在香港从事家政服务工作。根据法律规定，她们只有二等公民的地位，被迫与她们的雇主一起生活，往往是在很小的公寓里，比如罗允彤的公寓只有592平方英尺（约合55平米）。她们的最低工资是每月530美元，考虑到她们漫长的工作时间，这远低于香港的最低工资。艾维亚纳作证说，她经常工作20个小时，没有休息日。