HONG KONG — A sailboat competing in the Volvo Ocean Race, a marquee around-the-world sailing competition, collided with a Chinese fishing vessel near Hong Kong early Saturday, killing one of the Chinese boat’s crew members, race organizers and Chinese state media said.
香港——据赛事主办方和中国官方媒体报道，周六凌晨，沃尔沃环球帆船赛(Volvo Ocean Race)的一艘参赛船只与一艘中国渔船在香港附近海域发生碰撞，导致一名渔船船员死亡。
The Vestas 11th Hour Racing boat hit the fishing vessel around 1:20 a.m. local time. The crew alerted the Hong Kong authorities and race officials immediately after the collision. The Hong Kong Marine Rescue Coordination Center said that nine of the fishing boat’s crew members were rescued. A tenth who was taken by helicopter to a hospital, however, later died, race officials said.
参赛帆船“维斯塔斯第11小时竞赛队”(The Vestas 11th Hour Racing)在当地时间凌晨1:20时许与渔船相撞。事故发生后，参赛者立即通知了香港当局和大赛官方。香港海上救援协调中心表示，其中9名渔船船员被救出。大赛官方称，最后一名船员用直升机送往医院，但后来去世。
The dead sailor was from mainland China, according to the English-language Twitter account of The People’s Daily.
根据《人民日报》的英文Twitter账号称，这名死亡的船员来自中国大陆。
“On behalf of the Volvo Ocean Race and Vestas 11th Hour Racing, we offer our deepest condolences to the loved ones of the deceased,” the team and race officials said in a statement.
“我们代表沃尔沃环球帆船赛和维斯塔斯第11小时竞赛队，向逝者的亲友表示最深切的哀悼，”该团队和大赛官方在一则声明中写道。
No members of the American-Danish racing team were injured.
这个由美国和丹麦联合组队的参赛队伍没有人员受伤。
The Volvo Ocean Race is one of the world’s most famous, and most extreme, sailing competitions. Started in 1973 as the Whitbread, it is held once every three years, and teams race nonstop during a set of 10 legs. The latest edition began Oct. 22 in Alicante, Spain, and is scheduled to finish in June at The Hague.
沃尔沃环球帆船赛是世界最知名、最为极限的帆船比赛之一。比赛始于1973年，当时叫惠特布雷德(Whitbread)帆船赛，每三年举办一次，参赛团队需要连续完成10个赛段。此次比赛于去年10月22日从西班牙阿利坎特出发，计划于6月抵达终点海牙。
The collision on Saturday occurred about 30 miles from the finish of the fourth leg of the race, in the busy waters of the South China Sea. The 5,600-mile segment from Melbourne, Australia, to Hong Kong began on Jan. 2.
周六的碰撞发生在比赛第四赛段终点外30英里（约合48公里）处，地处南海的繁忙水域。从澳大利亚墨尔本出发到香港的这个5600英里（约合9000公里）赛段始于1月2日。
The Vestas 11th Hour Racing boat suffered damage and retired from the leg after the collision, but was able to motor to Hong Kong on its own. Members of the Vestas team did not immediately return requests for comment on Saturday.
“维斯塔斯第11小时竞赛队”的船只在碰撞后受损，退出了该赛段的比赛，但仍能自己行驶到香港。该团队的成员没有立即回应对周六事件的置评请求。
A photograph of the racing boat published on the website of Oriental Daily News, a Hong Kong newspaper, showed a long gouge along its port bow.
香港报纸《东方日报》的网站上刊登了该船的照片，显示在左舷船首位置有一道很长的凹痕。
Despite the challenging nature of the race, fatalities during the competition are rare, and sailing experts could not recall a previous death of a nonparticipant in a collision with a racing boat. Three sailors were swept overboard and died in the inaugural 1973-74 race, and the Dutch sailor Hans Horrevoets was killed in 2006 after falling overboard in the North Atlantic.
尽管竞赛有着挑战的性质，但竞赛期间的死亡事故非常罕见，帆船专家也想不到一起非参赛船只与参赛船只碰撞致死的先例。在1973至1974年的首次比赛中，三名船员落水死亡。2006年，荷兰船员汉斯·荷里弗斯(Hans Horrevoets)在北大西洋海域落水死亡。
The Vestas 11th Hour Racing team had been in a fight with the Dongfeng Race Team of China for second place when it hit the fishing boat. By the end of the fourth leg, it was third among seven teams, with the Mapfre team of Spain in the overall lead.
与渔船发生碰撞时，该团队在正在与中国的东风队争夺第二名。在第四赛段结束后，它在七支参赛队伍中位列第三，西班牙的曼弗雷队(Mapfre team)在总排名中领先。
Hong Kong was hosting the race for the first time, and the Melbourne-Hong Kong leg was won by a local team, Sun Hung Kai/Scallywag. It lost time recovering a crew member swept overboard, but gained an advantage on rivals by taking a more westerly route that other teams avoided for fear of missing strong winds from the northeast.
这是香港首次举办该赛事，香港本地的新鸿基队获得了墨尔本—香港赛段的第一名。该团队在搜救一名落水船员时浪费了一些时间，但通过选择了一条更加偏西的路线从而重新抢占优势，其他队伍由于担心没有东北方向来的强风而避开了这条路线。