The Tung Fat Building has a prized waterfront position in Kennedy Town, the westernmost neighborhood on the crowded north shore of Hong Kong Island.
同发大厦(Tung Fat Building)位于香港岛(Hong Kong Island)人口密集的北岸，占据着北岸最西边的居住区坚尼地城(Kennedy Town)最佳的水滨位置。
Its Cantonese name translates as the “Get Rich Together” building, one of many such aspirational titles for Hong Kong apartments and offices, old and new.
这座大厦的粤语名字可以诠释为“共同发财”大厦。香港的许多公寓楼和办公楼，无论新旧，都有很吉利的名字，这就是其中之一。
But for its owners, the “tong lau,” or walkup tenement, has been a decade-long cash sinkhole, although the expense should be ending now that the concrete building’s unusual renovation is all but completed.
但是对于业主们而言，这栋又称“唐楼”的无电梯分租式公寓楼，数十年来一直是个吸金的无底洞。不过，随着一项针对这座混凝土建筑的、不同寻常的翻修工程即将竣工，这笔开支也该终止了。
It took five years for the husband-and-wife team of Victoria Allan and Mark Cumming to accumulate all 12 units, which had been subdivided into commercial and residential spaces, and then another five years of working with government departments to secure renovation permits.
维多利亚·艾伦(Victoria Allan)和马克·卡明(Mark Cumming)这对夫妻搭档花了五年时间，收购下这栋楼里的全部12套单元，其中既有商业空间，也有居住空间；然后他们又花了五年时间与一些政府部门接洽，拿到了翻修批准。
“If I ever thought it would take this long to get the building finished, I don’t know I would have taken on the project, to be honest,” Ms. Allan said.
“如果我一早知道要这么久才能搞定这栋楼，坦白说，我可能就不会承接这个项目了。”艾伦说。
Preserving old buildings doesn’t exactly run in the psyche of Hong Kong, where locals joke that the sound of pile-driving and construction is the “Hong Kong symphony.” Major developers typically search for chances to pull down city blocks of tong lau and replace them with residential skyscrapers.
保护老建筑并不太算得上是香港精神。本地人都开玩笑说，这里打桩和施工的声音就是一支“香港交响曲”。大部分开发商一般都在寻找机会拆除成片的唐楼，并以摩天住宅楼取而代之。
At Tung Fat, however, the developers decided to keep the original building, designed as a homage to Modernism. They converted the interior to eight apartments, one per floor, while the ground-floor retail space now is home to Chino, a Mexican fusion restaurant run by a chef who formerly worked at several Nobu locations.
但是，对于同发大厦，开发商们决定保留原来的楼体，其设计是对现代主义风格的一次致敬。他们将大楼内部改建为八套公寓，每层一套，而底层的零售空间现在是Chino餐厅的所在地。这是一家墨西哥荟萃餐厅（fusion restaurant，卖不同地方特色菜肴的餐厅——译注），经营该餐馆的主厨之前曾在几家诺布日式餐厅(Nobu)工作过。
The original plan was to sell the completed apartments but, having put so much effort into the project, the owners decided to lease them instead. Monthly rents start at 55,000 Hong Kong dollars, or $7,095, for the smallest, 1,100-square-foot unit to 120,000 dollars for the 1,340-square-foot top floor apartment, which has a private roof. As of mid-December, five of the apartments have been rented.
业主们最初的计划是将公寓建好后出售，但鉴于在该项目中投入了太多精力，他们决定还是采取出租的形式。月租从5.5万港元或7095美元（约合人民币4.4万元）一套面积最小的1100平方英尺（约102平方米）公寓，到12万美元（约合人民币74万元）一套1340平方英尺（约125平方米）、带私家屋顶平台的顶层公寓不等。到（2014年）12月中旬，已有五套公寓签订了租约。
The building cost around 30 million dollars, and another 30 million to renovate. The owners believe they can achieve yields of 8 to 10 percent, more than double the norm in Hong Kong, because rents have risen considerably since they bought the structure.
该建筑的收购成本约为3000万美元（约合人民币1.87亿元），翻修又花了3000万。业主们相信，他们能获得8%至10%的收益，超出香港楼市正常收益的两倍，因为从他们买下这栋楼以来，租金已上涨了很多。
The building’s exterior was refurbished during the renovations, but its corners retain the curves characteristic of Modernism. Also, the ground floor is recessed, as is typical with tong lau, to offer protection from Hong Kong’s strong summer sun and occasional heavy rain.
该楼的外立面在翻修期间被修葺一新，但几处转角依然保留了现代主义风格的弧形特色。另外，底层采用了缩入式设计，是典型的唐楼风格，可以躲避香港夏季的强烈阳光和偶尔的倾盆大雨。
In the apartments’ living rooms, six-foot-tall windows were created to capture views of Stonecutters Bridge, the residential towers of Kowloon set against green hills and the hydrofoil ferries speeding to Macau. The windows originally featured faceted glass but, thanks to modern molding techniques, they now are single long curves.
公寓的起居室里都装了六英尺（约1.8米）高的窗户，可将昂船洲大桥(Stonecutters Bridge)、依青山而立的九龙住宅楼群以及快速驶往澳门的水翼渡轮等景色尽收眼底。这些窗户当初采用的是多面玻璃，但幸得现代铸模技术，如今都用了单面的长弧形玻璃。
“The building now looks very modern again, even though it’s an old building,” said Stephen Javens, the project’s architect. “What we have tried to do is reinvigorate the ideas of Modernism in this kind of building.”
“这栋楼现在又显得很时尚了，即便它是栋老建筑，”该项目的设计师斯蒂芬·杰文斯(Stephen Javens)说，“我们想做的，是在这类建筑中复兴现代主义的理念。”
Kerry Phelan Design Office, Mr. Javens’s firm, is based in Melbourne, Australia, and specializes in boutique residential projects and renovating heritage buildings. It had refurbished a 1920s building in Shanghai that is now the Cachet Boutique hotel. But it had never worked on such a project in Hong Kong.
杰文斯的公司Kerry Phelan设计事务所(Kerry Phelan Design Office)总部设在澳大利亚的墨尔本，该公司专业设计一些精品住宅项目，也翻修一些历史遗产建筑。该公司曾翻新过上海一栋20世纪20年代的建筑，也就是现在的凯世精品酒店(Cachet Boutique hotel)。但这家事务所在香港此前还从未承接过类似项目。
“We have been described as romantic modernists,” Mr. Javens said. “Once these buildings are gone, they are gone forever. I hope this building encourages people to preserve other parts of Hong Kong’s built heritage. Otherwise it will all disappear.”
“有人形容我们是浪漫的现代主义者，”杰文斯说，“这些老建筑一旦没了，就永远没有了。所以我希望这座建筑可以鼓励人们将香港的其他建筑遗产保存下来。否则，这些建筑就将全部消失了。”
The developers ensured that some of the Tung Fat building’s original features were preserved, such as the terrazzo balustrades in the stairwells, a common feature of pre-World War II buildings in the city.
开发商确保这栋唐楼原有的一些特色都被保留了下来，比如楼梯的水磨石栏杆，这是香港二战前建筑的一个普遍特征。
“I had to get them to cover it up and give them a penalty if it went,” said Ms. Allan, founder of Habitat Property, a local real estate brokerage firm. “Same with the original sign of the name on the front of the building. They just wanted to chip it off, this beautiful terrazzo writing.”
“我得让他们把栏杆包起来，如果不见了就让他们赔偿，”身为当地一家房地产经纪公司Habitat Property创始人的艾伦说，“楼前原来的楼名牌匾也是一样。他们还想把它铲掉，多漂亮的水磨石字体啊。”
Hong Kong’s rules required that the building, which had been renovated illegally many times over the years, had to be restored to its original state before the developers could apply for a legal renovation permit.
香港的建筑规章要求，这栋多年来非法翻修过数次的建筑，必须恢复到最初的状态后，开发商们才能申请合法翻修许可。
The interim changes also involved modern safety standards. For instance, the sidewalk had been built up over the years so it was level with the retail space. But the original plans showed the sidewalk had been lower so the developers had to build an access ramp for wheelchairs, then apply to remove it.
在过渡时期发生的变化，也涉及到一些现代的安全标准。比如多年来，楼下的人行道越抬越高，乃至已与零售店面的高度平齐。但最初的设计显示，这条走道曾经较低，所以开发商不得不先建好一条轮椅坡道，再申请拆除。
One of the main challenges was to install an elevator. The shaft space could not be dug below the building so, instead, the elevator lobby is at the top of a short flight of stairs. Even the elevator’s cab size had to be adjusted so there would be enough room left for a back staircase, as a fire escape.
安装电梯是一大难题。轮轴空间不能挖在楼底下，所以，电梯平台建在了一小段楼梯顶上。哪怕电梯轿厢的大小都必须调整，以便留出足够空间来安排备用楼梯，作为消防通道。
With all the changes, the contractors actually held two ceremonies to mark the “start” of the work, with suckling pork placed at a temporary shrine as a traditional offering to appease the gods and lead to safe work.
由于做了所有这些改动，该工程的承包商们实际上办了两场仪式来代表这项工程的“启动”。他们将烤乳猪摆在一张临时的供桌上，作为一项传统献祭来取悦神灵，以求安全施工。
“Two pigs have lost their lives in the making of this building,” Ms. Allan said.
“那两头猪为该楼的工程竣工献出了生命。”艾伦说。
The repermitting process was particularly painful, Ms. Allan and Mr. Javens said, because the Buildings Department would not give any initial guidance on the changes. So the contractors and architect had to guess what would be acceptable, begin the work, and then call officials down to the building to see if they approved.
重获批准的过程特别痛苦，艾伦与杰文斯说，因为香港屋宇署(Buildings Department)不会对这些改变提供任何初步指导。所以这些承包商与建筑设计师们不得不猜测哪些改动是可被接受的，然后开始施工，再请官员们来审查这栋楼，看他们是否认可。
The department officials did, however, have instructions about the floor plan and the building’s overall look. The top floors were slightly smaller than the other levels, creating a tapered silhouette that had to be maintained despite the renovation. So rather than use the sliding windows that were installed elsewhere, the architect inclined the windows on the top two floors — keeping the “slant” while also maximizing the interior space.
不过，该署官员对该楼的平面图及建筑总体外观的确有一些指导说明。该楼顶层比其他楼层的面积略小，从而形成了锥形的轮廓，这一点要在翻修时维持原状。所以该楼的建筑设计师没有采用别处都有的推窗，而是把最上面两层楼的窗户设计成了倾斜的样式——保持“倾斜”的同时，也将内部空间最大化。
“What was a problem has actually created something really unusual, a unique feature,” Mr. Javens said.
“本来这是个问题，实际上却造就出一个非同寻常、独一无二的特点。”杰文斯说。