Run Run Shaw, the colorful Hong Kong media mogul whose name was synonymous with low-budget Chinese action and horror films — and especially with the wildly successful kung fu genre, which he is largely credited with inventing — died on Tuesday at his home in Hong Kong. He was 106 years old.
周二，拥有传奇经历的香港媒体大亨邵逸夫(Run Run Shaw)在香港的家中去世，终年106岁。邵氏几乎是低成本华语武侠片和恐怖片——尤其是风靡世界的功夫片——的代名词。人们普遍认为他是功夫片的鼻祖。
His company, Television Broadcasts Limited, announced his death in a statement.
邵逸夫旗下的电视广播有限公司通过一份声明宣布了他辞世的消息。
Born in China, Mr. Shaw and his older brother, Run Me, were movie pioneers in Asia, producing and sometimes directing films and owning lucrative cinema chains. His companies are believed to have released more than 800 films worldwide.
出生于中国大陆的邵逸夫与哥哥邵仁枚同为亚洲电影业的先驱。他们制作电影，有时也参与执导，并拥有利润可观的院线。他旗下的数家公司据信在全世界发行了超过800部电影。
After his brother’s death in 1985, Mr. Shaw expanded his interest in television and became a publishing and real estate magnate as well. For his philanthropy, much of it going to educational and medical causes, he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II and showered with public expressions of gratitude by the Communist authorities in Beijing.
邵仁枚1985年去世后，邵逸夫将兴趣拓展到电视行业，同时还成为了出版业和房地产巨头。在慈善领域，他的活动主要集中在教育和医疗领域。为此，他被英女王伊丽莎白二世册封为爵士，并多次享受到中共当局公开表达的谢意。
Mr. Shaw enjoyed the zany glamour of the Asian media world he helped create. He presided over his companies from a garish Art Deco palace in Hong Kong, a cross between a Hollywood mansion and a Hans Christian Andersen cookie castle. Well into his 90s he attended social gatherings with a movie actress on each arm. And he liked to be photographed in a tai chi exercise pose, wearing the black gown of a traditional mandarin.
邵逸夫生前乐于享受他参与创造的亚洲媒体世界的奇风异俗。他在香港的一处装饰风艺术的炫目豪宅里运筹帷幄。这栋豪宅兼具了好莱坞大宅和安徒生笔下的饼干城堡的特点。在90多岁的时候，邵逸夫还会一手挽着一名女星参加社交活动。他喜欢在拍照时摆打太极的姿势、穿黑色的中式传统长衫。
Asked what his favorite films were, Mr. Shaw, a billionaire, once replied, “I particularly like movies that make money.”
有一次被问到最喜欢什么电影时，这位亿万富翁回答，“我最喜欢能赚钱的电影。”
Run Run Shaw was born Shao Yifu in Ningbo, Zhejiang Province, in 1907. As a child, he moved to Shanghai, where his father ran a profitable textile business. According to some Hong Kong press accounts, Run Run and Run Me were English-sounding nicknames the father gave his sons as part of a family joke that played on the similarity of the family name to the word rickshaw.
邵逸夫1907年出生于浙江宁波。幼年时期，他的父亲在上海经营着一家颇为赚钱的纺织公司，他随之迁居上海。一些香港媒体报道，两兄弟的英文名Run Run和Run Me是英语单词的谐音，来自于父亲给他们取的昵称，其中拿他们的姓氏“邵”(Shaw)与英文“黄包车”(rickshaw)一词的相似性打趣。
Evincing little interest in the family business, Run Run and Run Me turned instead to entertainment. The first play they produced was called “Man From Shensi,” on a stage, as it turned out, of rotten planks. As the brothers often told the story, on opening night the lead actor plunged through the planks, and the audience laughed. The Shaws took note and rewrote the script to include the incident as a stunt. They had a hit, and in 1924 they turned it into their first film.
邵逸夫和邵仁枚对家族生意几乎没有兴趣，而是转做了娱乐业。两人制作的第一部话剧叫做《立地成佛》，结果在演出时，舞台的木板已经烂掉。邵氏兄弟经常讲的故事是，首演当晚，男主演从烂掉的木头中掉了下来，引得观众大笑。邵氏兄弟记住了这件事，重新编排了剧本，把这个意外作为一个包袱写了进去。这部剧大获成功，1924年，他们把它改编成了自己的第一部电影。
After producing several more movies, the brothers decided that their homeland, torn by fighting between Nationalists and Communists, was too unstable. In 1927 they moved to Singapore, which was then part of British colonial Malaya.
此后，邵氏兄弟又制作了几部影片。后来，他们认为陷入国共内战的中国局势过于动荡，于1927年移居新加坡。那里当时是英国殖民统治下的马来亚的一部分。
Besides producing their own films in Singapore, the brothers imported foreign movies and built up a string of theaters. Their business boomed until the Japanese invaded the Malayan Peninsula in 1941 and stripped their theaters and confiscated their film equipment. But according to Run Run Shaw, he and his brother buried more than $4 million in gold, jewelry and currency in their backyard, which they dug up after World War II and used to resume their careers.
除了自己制作电影，邵氏兄弟在新加坡还引进外国片，并建起一系列影院。他们的公司蒸蒸日上，直到1941年日本入侵马来半岛。日本人抢夺了他们的影院，没收了他们的电影器材。据邵逸夫说，他和哥哥在自家后院埋了价值超过400万美元的黄金、珠宝和钞票，在二战结束后把它们挖了出来，利用这些资金继续发展他们的事业。
With the rise of Hong Kong as the primary market for Chinese films, Run Run Shaw moved there in 1959, while his brother stayed behind looking after their Singapore business.
随着香港崛起为华语电影的主要市场，1959年，邵逸夫移居香港，而他的哥哥则继续留在新加坡照看在那里的生意。
In Hong Kong, Run Run Shaw created Shaw Movietown, a complex of studios and residential towers where his actors worked and lived. Until then, the local industry had turned out 60-minute films with budgets that rarely exceeded a few thousand dollars. Shaw productions ran up to two hours and cost as much as $50,000 — a lavish sum by Asian standards at the time.
在香港，邵逸夫兴建了邵氏影城。这是一个影视制作公司和住宅楼的综合区，邵氏的演员在此工作和生活。当时，香港的电影行业已经制作了一些片长为60分钟的电影，而预算基本上不超过几千美元。邵氏制作的片长则接近两个小时，成本高达5万美元——依照亚洲当时的标准，这是一笔不小的数目。
Mr. Shaw went on to plumb the so-called dragon-lady genre with great commercial success. Movies like “Madame White Snake” (1963) and “The Lady General” (1965) offered sexy, combative, sometimes villainous heroines, loosely based on historical characters. And by the end of the 1960s, he had discovered that martial-arts films in modern settings could make even more money.
邵氏后来拍摄了一系列的“女中豪杰”题材的电影，在商业上大获成功。《白蛇传》(1963)和《花木兰》(1965)等影片对历史原型进行了大量改编，塑造了性感、勇猛，有时也有几分邪恶的女性形象。到了上世纪60年代末，邵逸夫发现，现代背景的武打电影更加卖座。
His “Five Fingers of Death” (1973), considered a kung fu classic, was followed by “Man of Iron” (1973), “Shaolin Avenger” (1976) and many others. Critics dismissed the films as artless and one-dimensional, but spectators crowded into the theaters to cheer, laugh or mockingly hiss at the action scenes. To ensure that his films were amply distributed, Mr. Shaw’s chain of cinemas grew to more than 200 houses in Asia and the United States. “We were like the Hollywood of the 1930s,” he said. “We controlled everything: the talent, the production, the distribution and the exhibition.”
在推出了经典武打片《天下第一拳》(1973)之后，邵氏又推出了《仇连环》(1973)和《方世玉与胡惠乾》(1976)等影片。影评人士认为这些片子缺乏艺术性和深度，但影院内的观众则场场爆满。他们对着电影中的武打场面叫好、大笑或是发出嘲讽的嘘声。为了确保电影的大规模发行，邵逸夫在亚洲和美国开设的连锁影院增加到了200多家。他说，“我们就像是30年代的好莱坞，我们控制着所有的东西：人才、制作、发行和放映。”
Other Hong Kong producers, directors and actors called Mr. Shaw’s methods iron-fisted. In 1970, Raymond Chow, a Shaw Brothers producer, left to form his own company, Golden Harvest, which gave more creative and financial independence to top directors and stars.
香港的其他一些制片人、导演和演员表示，邵逸夫以铁腕风格行事。1970年，邵氏制片人邹文怀离开公司，创办了嘉禾娱乐事业有限公司。嘉禾给一流导演和明星演员提供了更大的创作和财务独立性。
Mr. Chow’s biggest success, and Mr. Shaw’s most notable loss, was his decision to bankroll Bruce Lee. Mr. Lee initially approached Shaw Brothers, which turned down his demand for a long-term contract of $10,000 per film. Golden Harvest then offered Mr. Lee creative control and profit sharing.
邹文怀最大的成功，源自他资助李小龙的决定，而这正是邵逸夫最重大的损失。李小龙一开始曾和邵氏接洽过，提出以每部影片1万美元片酬的价码订立长期合同，却遭到了拒绝。在这之后，嘉禾提出让李小龙主导影片创作，还给他利润分成。
“The Big Boss,” better known as “Fists of Fury” (1971), was Mr. Lee’s first film with Golden Harvest and broke all Hong Kong box-office records. Other big-name actors and directors flocked to Golden Harvest, breaking Shaw Brothers’ virtual monopoly.
《唐山大兄》是李小龙和嘉禾合作的第一部影片，该片打破了香港所有的票房纪录。其他大牌演员和导演纷纷投奔嘉禾，打破了邵氏的实质性垄断。
But Run Run Shaw had already expanded beyond the film industry. His investments in the new phenomenon of Asian television were to prove even more lucrative than his movie productions. In 1972 he began Television Broadcasts (TVB), and he soon gained control of 80 percent of the Hong Kong market. TVB churned out 12 hours of its own programming a day, much of it soap operas and costume dramas that riveted Chinese television viewers on the mainland and throughout Southeast Asia.
不过，邵逸夫已经把业务扩展到了电影业之外。事实证明，他对崭露头角的亚洲电视行业的投资，获利之丰厚甚至超过了电影制作。1972年，他创办了电视广播有限公司（简称TVB），迅速控制了香港80%的电视市场。TVB每日播放12小时自家量产的节目，其中大多是肥皂剧和古装戏。它们牢牢地吸引住了中国大陆和整个东南亚地区的电视观众。
As his fortune grew, Mr. Shaw donated generously to hospitals, orphanages and colleges in Hong Kong, for which he was awarded the Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1974 and a knighthood in 1977. In 1990 he donated 10 million pounds to help establish the Run Run Shaw Institute of Chinese Affairs at Oxford University, where his four children had studied. In 2004 he established the Shaw Prize, an international award for research in astronomy, mathematics and medicine. As Hong Kong’s days as a British colony dwindled, Mr. Shaw stepped up his philanthropy in China. He contributed more than $100 million to scores of universities on the mainland, and raised money in support of Chinese victims of floods and other natural disasters. Chinese leaders toasted him for his generosity at banquets in Beijing.
随着财富的增长，邵逸夫慷慨解囊，捐助香港的医院、孤儿院和大学。为此，他在1974年被授予了大英帝国司令勋章(Commander of the Order of the British Empire)，并在1977年被册封为爵士。1990年，他捐赠1000万英镑，协助牛津大学(Oxford University)建立了邵逸夫中国研究所。他的四个子女都曾在牛津大学就读。2004年，他设立了“邵逸夫奖”，这是一项奖励天文学、数学和医药研究的国际奖项。随着香港作为英国殖民地的日子渐行渐远，邵逸夫加大了对中国大陆慈善事业的投入力度。他给大陆的大量院校提供捐款，总额超过了1亿美元。他还筹资帮助遭遇洪水等自然灾害的中国灾民。中国领导人在北京举行的宴会上向他敬酒，以感谢他的慷慨。
Mr. Shaw’s philanthropy did not extend to the United States, but he was once viewed as a white knight in New York. In 1991, when Macy’s was on the verge of bankruptcy, he bought 10 percent of its preferred shares for $50 million, becoming one of the largest shareholders in R. H. Macy & Company.
邵逸夫的慈善事业并没有拓展至美国，不过，他在纽约一度被视为白衣骑士。1991年，当梅西百货(Macy's)处在破产边缘时，邵逸夫出资5000万美元买下了梅西百货10%的优先股，成为了当时的梅西百货公司(R. H. Macy & Company)最大的股东之一。
The investment had a personal aspect. Ten years earlier, Mitchell Finkelstein, the son of Macy’s chief executive, Edward Finkelstein, had married Hui Ling, a Shaw protégé who appeared in many of his movies. Mr. Shaw met the older Finkelstein at the wedding, and they became friends.
这笔投资蕴含着个人因素。10年之前，梅西百货公司首席执行官爱德华·芬克尔斯坦(Edward Finkelstein)之子米切尔·芬克尔斯坦(Mitchell Finkelstein)和邵逸夫门下的女星慧玲（音译）结婚。后者曾出演邵氏的多部影片。邵逸夫在婚礼上遇见了老芬克尔斯坦，二人就此成为了朋友。
In later years, the aging mogul himself seemed in need of help to keep his media empire intact. Concerned with the rise of cable and satellite television, he sold a 22 percent stake in TVB to Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation in 1993.
在之后的岁月里，这名日渐衰老的大亨似乎急需帮助来完好地保住自己的媒体帝国。出于对有线电视和卫星电视崛起的担忧，他1993年把自己持有的22%TVB股份卖给了鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)旗下的新闻集团(News Corporation)。
Mr. Shaw had intended to maintain control over his media business by balancing his one-third share in TVB against Mr. Murdoch’s 22 percent and the 24 percent held by Robert Kuok, one of Hong Kong’s richest entrepreneurs. But the balance of power shifted when Mr. Murdoch sold his equity to Mr. Kuok shortly afterward. Then, in 1996, in Hong Kong’s first case of a hostile takeover, Mr. Kuok forced Mr. Shaw to sell him his shares in TVE, the lucrative publishing, music and real estate subsidiary of TVB. The deal reduced Mr. Shaw’s TVB stake to 23 percent.
邵逸夫意图通过自己手中三分之一的TVB股权，和默多克手中22%的股权，以及另一名香港商界大亨郭鹤年(Robert Kuok)手中24%的股权相抗衡，从而实现他对自己媒体帝国的控制。然而此后不久，默多克就把自己的股份卖给了郭鹤年，权力平衡由此发生了改变。而后的1996年，在香港的第一宗恶意收购案中，郭鹤年迫使邵逸夫把他在TVE的股份卖给了自己。后者是TVB的子公司，经营领域覆盖了出版、音乐和房地产行业，利润丰厚。这笔交易使得邵逸夫在TVB的股份降到了23%。
Mr. Shaw’s business situation was also hindered by his inability to groom credible successors. His sons, Vee Meng and Harold, were at one time heavily involved in the family enterprises, but their relationship with him had become strained.
邵逸夫的商业格局还因他无力培养可信的接班人而受影响。有一段时间，他的儿子邵维铭(Vee Meng)和邵维钟(Harold)曾大量参与家族生意，可是，他们后来和邵逸夫的关系变得紧张起来。
Even after turning 90, Mr. Shaw maintained a powerful presence in the Hong Kong film world through his control of Shaw Studios. But a newer generation of independent producers came to dominate the Hong Kong market with their own violent brand of police and gangster films.
哪怕在90过后，邵逸夫依然通过控制邵氏制片厂，维持着自己在香港电影界的强势地位。但新一代的独立制片人已逐渐通过拍摄暴力型的警匪片，主导了香港的电影市场。