LOS ANGELES — The Walt Disney Company’s smallest theme park resort, Hong Kong Disneyland, which lost money amid declining attendance last year, will get $1.4 billion in enhancements as part of a colossal six-year growth plan.
洛杉矶——华特迪士尼公司(Walt Disney Company)最小的主题公园香港迪士尼乐园(Hong Kong Disneyland)去年因游客人数减少而亏损。作为一个庞大的六年发展计划的一部分，它将得到14亿美元的改善资金。
The upgrades, announced on Tuesday afternoon in Hong Kong, will include an entire section themed around the animated movie “Frozen,” a first for any Disney park. Plans also call for a hugely amped-up castle, multiple rides based on Marvel superheroes, a new nighttime show with fireworks and fountains, and a performance venue based on “Moana,” an animated musical that arrives in American theaters on Wednesday.
该扩建计划周二下午在香港宣布。它将包括一整块以动画影片《冰雪奇缘》(Frozen)为主题的区域，这在所有迪士尼乐园中尚属首次。计划还包括一个大幅升级的城堡；根据漫威(Marvel)超级英雄设立的多个游乐项目；包含烟火和喷泉的新夜间秀，以及一个根据《海洋奇缘》(Moana)设立的表演场所——这部动画音乐片周三开始在美国上映。
Construction will begin in 2018 and conclude in 2023, with new offerings coming online almost every year during that period. The plans are subject to final approval by the Hong Kong Legislative Council and the Disney board.
扩建将于2018年开始，2023年结束。在此期间，几乎每年都会推出新项目。这些计划仍需得到香港立法会和迪士尼董事会的最终批准。
The expansion highlights Disney’s belief in Hong Kong Disneyland as a potential profit machine — not just as a theme park but as a creator of demand in China and Southeast Asia for the company’s movies, toys, clothes, video games, books, cruise vacations and TV programs.
扩建计划反映出迪士尼对香港迪士尼乐园作为潜在利润来源的信心——不只是作为主题公园，而且能够激发中国和东南亚对该公司的电影、玩具、服装、电子游戏、图书、邮轮度假和电视节目的需求。
“We are more excited than ever about the future of Hong Kong Disneyland,” Bob Chapek, Disney’s theme park chairman, said in a news release.
“我们对香港迪士尼乐园的未来比以往任何时候都更兴奋，”迪士尼的主题公园总监鲍勃·查派克(Bob Chapek)在新闻稿中说。
But the scope of the enhancements also reflects the difficult spot in which Hong Kong Disneyland finds itself. Despite more than $600 million in added attractions in recent years, including three new themed areas and a nighttime parade, the park lost about $20 million last year, according to financial filings.
不过，扩建规模也反映出香港迪士尼乐园的艰难处境。尽管近些年已投入6亿多美元增加景点，包括三个新的主题区和一个夜间游行活动，但根据提交给金融监管机构的文件，该公园去年亏损了约2000万美元。
Attendance has recently perked up — a consequence, perhaps, of media attention surrounding the opening of Shanghai Disney Resort in June — but the 11-year-old park had a terrible 2015. Attendance dropped 9.3 percent, to 6.8 million, compared with a year earlier, according to the Themed Entertainment Association. Occupancy at Disney’s two Hong Kong hotels declined to 80 percent from 93 percent.
参观人数最近有所回升——这可能是因为媒体对今年6月开业的上海迪士尼度假区的关注——但是这家有11年历史的公园2015年的表现非常糟糕。据世界主题公园协会(Themed Entertainment Association)称，它的参观人次比之前一年下降了9.3%，跌至680万人次。香港的两家迪士尼酒店的入住率从93%跌至80%。
Hong Kong Disneyland’s general manager, Andrew Kam, was forced out in March.
今年3月，香港迪士尼乐园的总经理金民豪(Andrew Kam)被迫辞职。
Like its entrenched local rival, Ocean Park, whose attendance dropped about 5 percent last year to 7.4 million.
和它本地的长期竞争对手海洋公园一样——后者去年的参观人次下降了约5%，跌至740万人次。
But Hong Kong Disneyland has also been vexed by its relatively small size. In particular, the park’s 77-foot-tall castle (a replica of the original at Disneyland in California) has been a sore point among locals. Not helping: Shanghai made a to-do about its 197-foot castle being the largest in the Disney empire.
不过，香港迪士尼乐园也一直被自己相对较小的规模所困扰。尤其是这里77英尺高的城堡（它是加州迪士尼乐园城堡的翻版）一直遭当地人诟病。雪上加霜的是：上海大肆宣传自己197英尺高的城堡在迪士尼帝国首屈一指。
The renewed focus on Hong Kong Disneyland, with its lush gardens and collection of classic Disney rides, comes just six months after the opening of the Shanghai resort, which generated global headlines for its opulence. Disney has suggested that the Shanghai park will attract 10 million visitors in its first year; four million people visited in the peak summer months alone.
香港迪士尼乐园有着树木茂盛的花园和多个迪士尼经典项目，对它的新关注出现在上海迪士尼度假区开业仅6个月后，后者曾凭借丰富的项目成为全球新闻头条。迪士尼表示，上海迪士尼度假区将在第一年吸引1000万游客。仅在今年夏季的高峰期，它就吸引了400万人。
Hong Kong leaders, already feeling insecure about the ascension of Shanghai as a financial capital, do not want their Disneyland to be viewed as a lesser property.
香港领导人已经对上海作为金融之都的冉冉升起而感到不安，他们不想让香港迪士尼乐园也显得低人一等。
“There seems to be an interesting growth in pride locally in Hong Kong in that park,” Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive, told analysts on a Nov. 10 conference call. “I guess their competitive spirits have somehow or another been stimulated.”
“有趣的是，香港本地人对这个公园的自豪感似乎在增强，”迪士尼的首席执行官罗伯特·A·艾格(Robert A. Iger)11月10日在会议电话中对分析人士说，“我觉得他们的竞争精神不知怎么被激发了出来。”
The Hong Kong government owns 53 percent of the park, with Disney controlling the balance. Funding for the $1.4 billion expansion will be split in corresponding proportion.
香港政府持有该公园53%的股份，迪士尼持有剩余股份。14亿美元的扩建费将按比例分摊。
The rides and shows announced on Tuesday come on top of additions already in the works. Hong Kong Disneyland will unveil an “Iron Man”-themed flight simulator on Jan. 11, and a new 750-room hotel will open its doors in the months thereafter.
在周二宣布增设游乐和表演项目之前，已有一些扩建项目正在进行中。香港迪士尼乐园将于明年1月11日推出一个以《钢铁侠》为主题的飞行模拟器。一家拥有750间客房的新酒店将在之后数月内开业。
Starting in 2018, a new Marvel-themed ride (taking the spot of a Buzz Lightyear attraction) and the “Moana” complex will arrive. The supersize castle will open the next year. The snow-dusted Arendelle from “Frozen” — replete with a lake, an ice mountain, two rides, shops and restaurants — is the 2020 offering. More Marvel attractions are planned in the years after that, with one based on “The Avengers.”
从2018年开始，一个以漫威为主题的新游乐项目（取代一个巴斯光年[Buzz Lightyear]景点）和《海洋奇缘》综合建筑将纳入使用。超大型城堡将在之后一年开幕。《冰雪奇缘》中白雪皑皑的阿伦黛尔王国(Arendelle)——完整地包括一个湖、一座冰山、两个游乐项目、商店和餐厅——将于2020年推出。更多的漫威景点将在之后推出，其中一个以《复仇者联盟》(The Avengers)为主题。