HONG KONG — A Chinese cargo ship laden with cement sank near Hong Kong waters early Monday after colliding with a larger container ship registered in the Marshall Islands, leaving 11 people missing and setting off a frantic search for survivors, officials said.
香港——周一凌晨，一艘满载水泥的中国货船与一艘更大的马绍尔群岛籍集装箱货船相撞，前者随后在香港附近水域沉没。官员称，此次事故共导致11人失踪，有关方面正在紧张地搜寻幸存者。
One person was rescued following the 3 a.m. accident about three miles off Po Toi Island, which is just southeast of Hong Kong Island in the South China Sea. The Chinese cargo ship, the Zhong Xing 2, which was traveling from Hebei Province with 12 people on board, sank after the collision.
事故于凌晨3点发生在距离蒲台岛约3英里（约合4.8公里）的地方，该岛在位于南海的香港岛的东南方向，目前有一人获救。这艘叫做“中兴二号”的中国货船从河北开来，在撞击之后沉没，船上共载有12人。
“The cargo ship sank at the said location,” a spokesman for the Hong Kong police said.
一名香港警方发言人说，“这艘货船在前述地点沉没。”
A fishing boat was able to rescue a crew member from the cargo ship, the spokesman said. The 46-year-old man, who was from mainland China, suffered minor injuries.
这名发言人说，货船的一名船员被一艘渔船救起。获救的是一名46岁的中国内地男子，受了轻伤。
Hong Kong is one of the world’s busiest ports, and it is not uncommon at night or during fog to hear a series of sonorous blasts from a freighter, warning a smaller vessel to move out of the way. The city is also home to a large fleet of fishing vessels. But Alan Loynd, the former senior salvage master of Hong Kong Salvage & Towage, which is the main marine salvage and towing company in the city, said that Hong Kong had not had more of a problem over the years than other large ports with collisions and close calls among fishing vessels and freighters.
香港是世界最繁忙的港口之一，夜间或起雾时经常可以听到货船发出的一系列响亮警号，告诫较小的船只避开货船。这里还有大量的渔船。但是，香港打捞及拖船有限公司(Hong Kong Salvage & Towage)前高级搜救负责人阿兰·洛因德(Alan Loynd)表示，多年以来，渔船和货船在香港相撞或险些相撞的情况并不比其他大型港口多。香港打捞及拖船有限公司是香港提供海事搜救和拖曳服务的主要公司。
“There have been occasional cases like everybody else, but nothing special,” he said.
他说，“与其他地方一样，这里偶尔也会发生意外，但是并无任何特别之处。”
Mr. Loynd, who is also the chairman of the International Tugmasters Association, a marine safety and advocacy group that represents the ship towing industry, noted that a powerful thunderstorm had been moving through the Hong Kong area about the time of the collision. But he cautioned that there was no information available yet on whether the vessels were under or close to the thunderstorm at the moment of impact.
洛因德还是国际拖船协会(International Tugmasters Association)的主席，该协会是一个代表拖船业的海事安全和倡导组织。洛因德指出，在撞船事件发生的前后，一场大雷暴正席卷香港地区。但他提醒，关于撞船发生时两船是否处于或接近雷暴区域，目前尚无相关信息。
Modern marine radar systems aboard freighters are very good at spotting lower-riding vessels, provided the systems are properly adjusted, Mr. Loynd said. But very heavy rainfall, as occurred at times during the thunderstorm, might degrade radar performance somewhat, he said, while the very frequent lightning strikes during the thunderstorm also might have affected radar.
洛因德表示，货船上的现代航海雷达系统如果调试得当，应该能很好地探测到船身较低的船只。但他说，这次的雷暴有时伴随着强降雨，这种强降雨可能会在一定程度上影响雷达的效能，雷暴中频频出现的闪电也可能对雷达造成影响。
Hong Kong has long had a reputation for heavy springtime fog. That has been compounded in recent years by severe smog, coming from factories in nearby mainland China as well as from sources in Hong Kong itself. Visibility fell to 1,800 feet during an especially dense predawn smog in August 2004, and four collisions involving a total of eight ships were recorded in a single hour, although no one was killed in any of them.
长期以来，香港一直以春季浓雾闻名。最近几年，来自邻近的中国内地的工厂，以及香港本身的一些源头的浓重烟雾加剧了这种现象。2004年8月曾有一场特别浓重的黎明前烟雾，使得可见度降至1800英尺（约合550米），根据记录，一小时之内就发生了四起撞船事故，共涉及八艘船，不过未有人员在事故中遇难。
The search for any survivors from Monday’s collision was being conducted by the Guangdong Maritime Safety Administration, since the accident took place outside Hong Kong waters, the police said. Some Hong Kong departments were working with their mainland counterparts in the rescue effort.
警方表示，负责搜寻周一撞船事故幸存者的是广东海事局，因为事故发生地点位于香港水域之外。香港的一些部门正在与内地的对口部门合作，协助进行此次搜救。