HONG KONG — A 29-year-old British man has been arrested in Hong Kong after the bodies of two women were found in an upscale apartment, the Hong Kong police said over the weekend. One woman’s throat had been slashed, and the body of the other was found decomposing, stuffed in a suitcase on a balcony.
香港——香港警方周末称，在一间高档公寓里发现了两名女性的尸体，警方随后逮捕了一名29岁的英国籍男子。一名女性遭割喉；另一名的尸体已开始腐烂，被塞在阳台上的一个行李箱里。
The man, Rurik George Caton Jutting, was charged with the two murders on Monday at Hong Kong’s Eastern Magistrates’ Courts. He was identified as an employee of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, according to a person familiar with the company who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation. A person with that name recently left the company, said Paul Scanlon, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for the bank.
该名男子，鲁里克·乔治·卡顿·贾汀(Rurik George Caton Jutting)，在香港东区裁判法院提堂被控两项谋杀罪。他被指认为美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)的一名员工，据因情况敏感性而不愿具名的知悉该公司情况的人士所称。该行驻香港的一名发言人保罗·斯坎伦(Paul Scanlon)说。一个叫这个名字的人最近从公司离职。
Mr. Jutting called the police at 3:42 a.m. Saturday to ask that they investigate at the apartment in the Wan Chai district of the city, the police said in a statement. When they arrived, officers found a woman between the ages of 25 and 30 with cuts on her throat and buttocks. The woman, not yet identified, was pronounced dead at the scene. Later, the police found the second woman, with injuries to her neck, in the suitcase. That woman, identified in court documents as Ningsih Sumarti, was found to have died on Oct. 27.
警方在一份声明中表示，该男子在周六凌晨3点42分报警，请求警方前往这间位于湾仔区的公寓调查。警员赶到现场后，发现了一名年纪在25岁至30岁之间的女子，喉部和臀部有割伤。该名身份尚未认定的女子被当场宣布死亡。随后，他们又在行李箱里发现了第二名女子，伤口在颈部。那名女子在法庭文件中被认定为宁西·苏玛缇(Ningsih Sumarti)，其被发现于10月27日身亡。
Mr. Jutting, who was in the apartment, was arrested.
同在公寓里的贾汀遭到逮捕。
One resident of the apartment building, who refused to give his name, said he lived near the 31st floor. “We noticed a strong smell about noon yesterday; it was like rotting fish or something,” he said. “I think that was right before the police came, or right after, when they discovered the body.”
公寓楼里一位拒绝透露姓名的住户称，他住在31层附近。“昨天中午，我们注意到有一股很浓的味道；像是烂鱼之类的东西发出的，”他说。“我觉得那就在警察赶到之前，或是之后他们发现了尸体的时候。”
A spokesman at the British Foreign Office in London confirmed that a male British citizen had been arrested in Hong Kong and that he and his family were receiving consular assistance. The spokesman did not identify the person. Hong Kong is a former British colony.
英国外交部的发言人在伦敦证实，一名英国男性公民在香港被捕，该公民及其家人正在接受领事协助。这位发言人没有说明此人的身份。香港以前是英国的殖民地。
According to Mr. Jutting’s profile on LinkedIn, he began his career at Barclays in 2008 after graduating from the University of Cambridge, where he studied history and law. He joined Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s London office in July 2010. He moved to the firm’s Hong Kong office in July 2013. The person familiar with the company said Mr. Jutting had resigned last Monday, though he remained in the company’s directory.
据贾汀的LinkedIn档案，他在从剑桥大学(University of Cambridge)毕业后，于2008年在巴克莱(Barclays)开始了他的职业生涯。他在剑桥研读历史和法律。他于2010年7月加入了美银美林的伦敦办公室，并在2013年7月转移到了该行的香港办公室。那位了解该公司情况的人士说，贾汀已于上周一辞职，尽管他仍留在该公司的名录之中。
Bloomberg News reported that an automated email reply from Mr. Jutting’s work account said that the banker was out of the office “indefinitely” and urged the sender to contact someone who was not “an insane psychopath.” The report added that the automated reply also said, “For escalation please contact God, though suspect the devil will have custody.”
彭博社(Bloomberg News)报道，贾汀工作邮件的自动回复称该银行家“无限期”不在办公室，并敦促发件人联络不是“一个疯狂的精神病”的人。该报道补充说，那个自动回复还说道，“要更差的请联络上帝，尽管怀疑魔鬼将负责保管它。”
An attempt to email Mr. Jutting’s work address later in the day resulted in a message saying the email was not deliverable.
本日晚些时候的一次给贾汀工作邮箱发邮件的尝试换来了一封说该邮件不可送达的信息。
Murders are rare in Hong Kong. In the first seven months of this year, just 14 homicides were recorded in this city of 7.2 million. By comparison, 256 homicides were recorded in New York City, which is home to 8.4 million people, this year to Oct. 19, according to the New York Police Department.
香港很少发生谋杀案。这座城市拥有720万人口，但在今年的前7个月，记录在案的命案只有14起。相比之下，来自纽约市警察局的数据显示，在拥有840万人口的纽约，截至10月19日，今年共发生命案256起。