HONG KONG — The banker, Rurik George Caton Jutting, a Cambridge graduate, came from London in 2013, one of thousands of expatriates who arrive in Hong Kong every year to pursue jobs in banking and burnish their résumés with Asia experience. Mostly men, they often live expense-account-subsidized lives in luxury high-rise apartments, patronizing trendy Western bars at night and socializing at members-only tennis and yacht clubs on weekends.
香港——银行家、剑桥大学毕业生鲁里克·乔治·卡顿·贾汀(Rurik George Caton Jutting)2013年从伦敦来到这里，他是每年来香港从事银行工作、为自己的履历增添亚洲经验光彩的成千上万的外籍人士之一。这些人大都是男性，他们常常生活在房租有补贴、费用可报销的豪华高层公寓中，夜间光顾时尚的西式酒吧，周末在会员制的网球和游艇俱乐部社交。
The women, Seneng Mujiasih, 29, and Sumarti Ningsih, 23, also came to Hong Kong to better their lives. Leaving poverty in rural Indonesia, they were among the city’s more than 300,000 foreign domestic workers, mostly women from Southeast Asia, earning as little as $530 a month cleaning houses and caring for children and old people, six days a week, 17 hours a day.
那两名女性，29岁的瑟宁·穆吉亚西(Seneng Mujiasih)和23岁的宁西·苏玛缇(Ningsih Sumarti)来香港，也是为了更好的生活。她们属于摆脱了印尼农村的贫困，来香港给人做家务的30多万外籍工人的大军，其中大多是来自东南亚的女性，她们每周6天、每天17小时地工作，打扫房间、照顾孩子和老人，每月最多挣530美元（约合3250元人民币）。
Their worlds collided, the authorities believe, in the garish neon bars of Hong Kong’s red light district of Wan Chai, where Asian women, often current or former housemaids, earn extra money selling overpriced drinks and furtive sex to foreign men.
官方认为，这两个截然不同的世界，在香港的红灯区湾仔灯红酒绿的酒吧相遇，在那里曾经的或仍是女佣的亚洲女性，常常靠出售高价酒饮、或偷偷摸摸地为外国男子提供性服务赚点外快。
The encounters ended with death in Mr. Jutting’s apartment. Ms. Seneng’s body was found by the police in the early morning of Nov. 1, with cuts to the throat and buttocks. Ms. Sumarti was found hours later, her decomposing corpse stuffed into a suitcase on the balcony. The police said she had died on Oct. 27.
相遇以贾汀寓所中的死亡告终。警方于11月1日凌晨在寓所中发现了瑟宁的尸体，她的喉咙和臀部有刀伤。几个小时之后，警方在阳台上一个手提箱里找到了苏玛缇已经开始腐烂的尸体。警方说，她死于10月27日。
Mr. Jutting, 29, who had called the police, was charged with two counts of murder. He is now being evaluated to determine whether he is mentally fit to stand trial; if convicted, he would face life in prison.
是现年29岁的贾汀打电话报的警，他被指控犯有两项谋杀罪。目前正在对他进行心理评估，以确定他是否精神健全、能够受审；如果罪名成立，他将面临终身监禁。
The police have released few other details. How Mr. Jutting met the women, the nature of their relationship and investigators’ theories about the motive for the killings are not publicly known.
警方对案子没有发布多少细节。贾汀是如何认识这两名女子的，与她们有什么性质的关系，以及警方有关杀人动机的理论，公众都无从所知。
But interviews with friends, relatives and acquaintances, as well as extensive records left online by the suspect and the victims, yield a detailed portrait of a side of this financial capital that is rarely seen. They tell the story of impoverished immigrants who, trapped by harsh work rules that relegate them to second-class status and desperate to support families at home, were drawn to the bars of Wan Chai, and a banker who had a great deal of expendable income, and, according to his Facebook page, an abiding interest in young Asian women.
但是，通过对朋友、亲戚，以及熟人的采访，加上犯罪嫌疑人和受害者在网上留下大量的记录，可以得到这个金融中心罕见一面的一个详细故事。这个故事讲述了贫困的外国打工者，在严厉的工作规则限制之下，处于二等公民的地位，不顾一切地想为国内的家人提供经济支持，而被吸引到湾仔的酒吧。这也是一个有大笔钱可花的银行家的故事，据他的Facebook页面，他对亚洲的年轻女性有持久的兴趣。
Seneng means “happiness” in Javanese, and Ms. Seneng tried to bring some to her family, sending money home every three months to help them build a house, pay for her mother’s diabetes medicine, buy a bed.
瑟宁在爪哇语的意思是“幸福”，瑟宁也试图把一些幸福带给她的家人，她每三个月给家人寄钱，帮他们盖房子，为母亲的糖尿病支付药费，还买了一张床。
A friend, who did not want to be identified because she has started a new life in Indonesia and does not want her Hong Kong history publicized, said she and Ms. Seneng held two jobs in Hong Kong, working part time as domestic servants during the day and as prostitutes at night. At places like the New Makati Pub & Disco, a dimly lit second-floor walk-up bar, they could make as much as $100 on a busy night by encouraging men to buy drinks, and more than $250 for sex.
一位朋友说，她和瑟宁在香港打工时，都是白天做钟点家务，晚上当妓女，这位朋友要求不具名，因为她已回到印尼开始了新的生活，不想让人知道自己在香港的历史。在像New Makati Pub & Disco这样的灯光昏暗的酒吧，在业务繁忙的夜晚，她们靠鼓励男人买酒饮最多可挣100美元，而提供性服务则可挣到逾250美元。
It was a double life that Ms. Seneng, who also went by the name Jesse Lorena, seemed to embrace. Photos on her Facebook profile show her as a fun-loving woman who liked to hang out at Hong Kong nightclubs and post sexually suggestive photos that drew admiring comments. But other photos show her fully covered in Muslim dress, a head scarf over her hair.
瑟宁似乎欣然接受了这种双重生活，她给自己起了别名叫杰西·洛雷娜(Jesse Lorena)。她的Facebook个人资料照片把她显示为一个喜欢玩乐的女子，喜欢在香港的夜店消磨时光，她还发布了带有性暗示的照片，吸引了赞赏者的评论。但是，其他的照片则显示她穿着遮盖全身的穆斯林服装，戴着不让头发露出来的头巾。
The friend said the maid’s job was enough to pay for room and board but left nothing to send home. Working the bars in Wan Chai seemed the only way. “We didn’t want to be like this forever,” she said.
那位朋友说，女佣的工资足以支付食宿，但没有剩下能寄回家的钱。在湾仔酒吧工作似乎是唯一的出路。“我们不希望永远这样，”她说。
Like Ms. Seneng, Ms. Sumarti, called Aliz by friends, was by far the biggest breadwinner in her family, sending the equivalent of $300 every month to help pay for the care of her son, Novan, who turns 5 this month. She left school at 13. She had worked as a servant here, came back on a tourist visa and was to have returned to Jakarta on Nov. 3. Her family said she had recently taken a D.J. course in Jakarta. “She made me happy,” said a friend, Susiati. “She had to take care of her son, and it wasn’t easy.”
和瑟宁一样，被朋友成为爱丽兹(Aliz)的苏玛缇，也是她家最大的经济支柱，她每月给家里寄相当于300美元的钱，以帮助支付照顾她的儿子诺旺(Novan)的费用，诺旺这个月就5岁了。她13岁时离开学校，曾在这里当佣人，后来拿着旅游签证再次来港，原打算11月3日回雅加达。她的家人说，她最近在雅加达学过当流行音乐节目选播员。一位叫苏丝阿缇(Susiati)的朋友说，“她让我快乐。她需要照顾儿子，那并不容易。”
Mr. Jutting had been working in Hong Kong more than a year, after starting at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London in 2010, in the derivatives unit. He was “well regarded and a hard worker,” a co-worker said, and liked to travel to neighboring countries in Southeast Asia on weekends.
贾汀来香港工作有一年多了，他于2010年加入了美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)的伦敦办公室，在衍生产品部门工作。一位同事说，他“受到好评，是一位努力工作的人”，他喜欢在周末去附近的东南亚国家旅游。
With four years of experience, he would have been earning $600,000 to $800,000 a year, according to a banker familiar with the company’s compensation.
据熟悉该公司工资情况的一位银行家说，像贾汀这样有四年工作经验的人，年薪可能会是60万美元到80万美元。
Ms. Seneng and Ms. Sumarti would have had to work 100 years as domestic servants to earn what Mr. Jutting made in a year. Meager as their wages were, they catapulted the women far beyond their worlds at home. Ms. Sumarti’s father, for instance, earns about $2 a day helping neighbors tend their rice fields in central Java. His own small rice plot brings in about $400 a year.
瑟宁和苏玛缇需要当100年的佣人才能挣到贾汀一年的收入。尽管工资微薄，但这已让她们的收入远远超过老家的水平。苏玛缇的父亲靠帮助爪哇中部的农民管理稻田每天能挣2美元。他自己的一小片稻田每年能有约400美元的收入。
The gulf between the haves and have-nots in Hong Kong is among the world’s widest. This gap is reinforced by laws that rights groups say institutionalize a caste system among foreigners, putting expatriate business people like Mr. Jutting at the top and migrant workers such as Ms. Seneng and Ms. Sumarti at the bottom.
香港是世界上贫富差距最大的地方之一。人权组织说，香港的法律将这种差距制度化，在外国人中形成一种类似种姓制度的东西，在这个制度最上层的是像贾汀那样的外国商务人士，而最底层的则是瑟宁和苏玛缇这样的外国打工者。
Domestic servants, called helpers, cannot apply for permanent residency, which businessmen like Mr. Jutting qualify for after seven years. And they are subject to a special pay scale, with a wage floor that works out to about two-thirds less than Hong Kong’s minimum wage of $3.87 an hour. The law also makes their lives here dependent on remaining in the good graces of their employers. If dismissed, they have 14 days to leave the country and must pay hundreds, if not thousands of dollars, to placement agencies to arrange a return.
被称为帮手的家庭佣人不能申请永久居留，而像贾汀那样的商人在香港居住七年后则有资格申请。外籍佣人的薪金由一个特别的工资标准决定，其最低标准只有香港本地人每小时3.87美元最低工资的三分之一。法律还让他们在香港的生活依赖于得到雇主的欢心。一旦被解雇，他们需在14天内离开香港，还需要向就业安置机构支付数百、甚至数千美元的钱才能再回来工作。
Robert Van den Bosch, 47, entertainment manager for the Queen Victoria pub on Lockhart Road, said he had known Ms. Seneng for two years and had identified her photos to the police. He said that she had worked at bars in Wan Chai where men would buy her drinks. She would get a cut from the bar, about $2 to $3 a drink. Working six days a week, she could earn as much as $580 a month, more than a housemaid’s salary, he said.
位于骆克道的维多利亚女王酒吧47岁的娱乐经理罗伯特·范·登·博施(Robert Van den Bosch)说，他认识瑟宁已有两年了，是他向警方确认了她的照片。他说，她在湾仔的酒吧工作，那里的男人们会给她买酒喝。她会从买酒饮中得到点钱，大致是每杯2到3美元。他说，每周工作六天的话，她每月最多可挣580美元，高于当女佣的工资。
The last time he saw Ms. Seneng was on the night of Oct. 31, hours before the police say she was killed. She gave him two kisses, as usual, and said she was off to the New Makati a few doors down. By then Mr. Jutting had stopped showing up for work regularly had gained weight, his co-worker said, adding that on Oct. 27, Mr. Jutting resigned.
他最后一次见到瑟宁是10月31日晚上，是在警察说她被杀之前的几个小时。像往常一样，她吻了他两下，并说她要去几门之隔的New Makati上班。那些日子，贾汀已不再按时到银行工作，体重也有所增加，他的同事说，并补充说，贾汀于10月27日辞了职。
On the night of Oct. 31, about the time Ms. Seneng was saying goodbye to Mr. Van den Bosch, Mr. Jutting posted what was to be his final public Facebook entry before his arrest. Citing an article about a study showing increasing happiness in countries with growing economies, he wrote, “Money DOES buy happiness: Growing wealth of Asian nations is making their people happier — but women are more content than men.”
10月31日夜里，大约在瑟宁向范·登·博施告别的时候，贾汀发了后来成为他被捕前在Facebook上的最后一个所有人都能看到的帖子。帖子提到一项研究，显示幸福感在经济不断发展的国家中增加，他写道，“金钱的确能买幸福：亚洲国家日益增长的财富正让其人民更幸福——但女性满足程度比男性高。”