The kidnapping case last month of Queenie Rosita Law, 29, granddaughter of the late textiles tycoon Law Ting-pong, has gripped Hong Kong, a city that, despite its low crime rate, has seen a number of sensational abductions over the years targeting some of its richest families.
上个月，已故纺织业大亨罗定邦(Law Ting-pong)的孙女罗君儿(Queenie Rosita Law)被绑一案震惊香港，尽管香港的犯罪率较低，但过去几年发生了很多针对富豪家族的轰动性绑架事件。
On April 25, Ms. Law was taken by six men from her home in Sai Kung to a cave on Fei Ngo Shan, also known as Kowloon Peak, officials said. She was held there for three days until her release, after her family paid a ransom of 28 million Hong Kong dollars, or $3.6 million.
官员表示，4月25日，罗君儿被六名男子从位于西贡区的家中带至飞鹅山（又称九龙峰）的山洞内。在家人支付2800万港元（约合2240万元人民币）的赎金后，已被绑架三天的罗君儿最终获释。
Here’s where the case stands:
以下是此案进展：
The Suspects: The Hong Kong police said on Thursday that nine men, all from the Chinese mainland, had been arrested on suspicion of involvement in the kidnapping. A search continues for other possible suspects.
嫌犯：香港警方在周四表示，9名内地男子因涉嫌参与绑架而被逮捕。警方仍在搜寻其他可能的嫌疑人。
The Arrests: All but one were made by the mainland Chinese police, in the cities of Shenzhen, Dongguan and Huizhou in Guangdong Province, and in Guizhou Province. The only arrest in Hong Kong was made on May 3, as one suspect tried to cross the border into Shenzhen.
逮捕：除了一人在香港被捕外，内地警方在深圳、广东省的东莞和惠州、以及贵州省捕获其他嫌犯。5月3日，一名嫌犯在试图从香港过境进入深圳时被捕
The Ransom: About one-tenth of the ransom has been recovered, as well as some jewelry stolen from Ms. Law’s house. The rest of the money might be hidden in the woods in Hong Kong or on the mainland, Anthony Tsang, the police senior superintendent, said at a news conference on Thursday.
赎金：高级警司曾正科(Anthony Tsang)在周四的新闻发布会上称，大约十分之一的赎金，和罗君儿家中的被盗的一些珠宝已被起回。其他部分可能被藏在香港的丛林里，或者在大陆。
The Penalties: This will depend on where the suspects are prosecuted. Under Chinese criminal law, convicted kidnappers face at least 10 years in prison; they can be given the death penalty if they cause the death of their victim. The maximum sentence in Hong Kong is life imprisonment.
刑罚：取决于嫌犯在哪里被起诉。根据中国刑法，被定罪的绑架犯至少面临10年刑期；如果他们的行为导致受害者死亡，他们可能就会面临死刑。香港最严重的惩罚是终身监禁。
Extradition: There is no extradition agreement between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. Mr. Tsang said the authorities on both sides would discuss arrangements for the trials of the suspects. The suspect who was arrested in Hong Kong, Zheng Xingwang, 29, of Guizhou, has already appeared in court, but his trial has been adjourned to July 7.
引渡：香港与大陆尚未达成引渡协议。曾正科表示，双方官员将就嫌犯的审判安排进行讨论。在香港被捕的郑兴旺已经出过庭，但是他的审判被推迟至7月7日。此人29岁，来自贵州。