Sales appeared to be strong at the fourth edition of Art Basel Hong Kong, despite concerns about the impact of the recent economic slowdown in China on the international art market.
尽管人们担心最近中国经济放缓会对国际艺术市场造成影响，但是第四届香港巴塞尔艺术展(Art Basel Hong Kong)的销售情况显得相当乐观。
Works continued to sell through the last day of the five-day fair, which ended Saturday, reflecting what many say is a tendency by collectors in the region to make decisions about major purchases slowly.
该艺术展共持续5天，于周六结束。直到最后一天，艺术品还在不断售出，反映出很多人所说的这一地区收藏者的一个倾向：进行重要购买时决策缓慢。
Of the 239 galleries featured in this year’s fair, Cardi Gallery of London and Milan notched one of the biggest sales, a work by Cy Twombly that had an asking price of $10 million. It was bought by a private European collector.
在今年艺术展上的239家画廊中，伦敦和米兰的卡尔迪画廊(Cardi Gallery)售出了价格最高的作品。赛·通布利(Cy Twombly)的一件作品要价1000万美元，被欧洲的一位私人收藏者买下。
Several galleries, including Tina Keng Gallery in Taipei and Beijing, David Kordansky Gallery in Los Angeles, and Pace Gallery in New York, reported sales of all or nearly all of the works they exhibited.
有几家画廊称，自己展出的所有或几乎所有作品都已售出，包括台北和北京的耿画廊(Tina Keng Gallery)、洛杉矶的大卫·康丹斯基画廊(David Kordansky Gallery)，以及纽约的佩斯画廊(Pace Gallery)。
“Before, the fair was always good, but this year it was spectacular,” said Leng Lin, regional partner of Pace Asia. “We met a lot of new collectors this year, as in the past, and the desire to buy was still very strong.”
“这个艺术展一向很好，不过今年是特别好，”佩斯亚洲合伙人冷林说，“今年我们遇到很多新藏家，和往年一样，购买欲依然很强。”
Pace sold four works by Robert Rauschenberg, including one to an important Asian museum, according to Mr. Leng. In all, he said, the gallery sold around 25 works, including pieces by Yoshitomo Nara and Zhang Xiaogang and, on the last day, Agnès Martin and Alexander Calder.
据冷林说，佩斯画廊售出了罗伯特·劳申贝格(Robert Rauschenberg)的4件作品，其中1件卖给了一个重要的亚洲博物馆。他说，该画廊大概总共卖出25件作品，包括奈良美智和张晓刚的作品，最后一天卖出了阿涅丝·马丁(Agnès Martin)和亚历山大·考尔德(Alexander Calder)的作品。
Western galleries reported steady sales. Dominique Lévy Gallery of New York, London and Geneva sold an untitled Rudolf Stingel painting with an asking price of $1.9 million. Lehmann Maupin of New York, London and Hong Kong sold two works by Tracey Emin for between $56,700 and $354,000, and six works by the South Korean artist Do Ho Suh that were priced between $10,000 and $200,000.
西方画廊销售稳定。纽约、伦敦和日内瓦的多米尼克·莱维画廊(Dominique Lévy Gallery)以190万美元的要价卖出鲁道夫·斯廷格尔(Rudolf Stingel)的一幅无题画作。纽约、伦敦和香港的立木画廊(Lehmann Maupin)售出特蕾西·埃明(Tracey Emin)的2件作品，价格在5.67万至35.4万美元之间，以及韩国艺术家徐道获的6件作品，价格在1万至20万美元之间。
Hauser & Wirth sold a painting by Mark Bradford for $1.5 million, as well as a painting by Alexander Calder and three works by Louise Bourgeois for undisclosed amounts. David Zwirner of New York and London reported its best year at the fair, selling five works by the Belgian artist Michaël Borremans made especially for Hong Kong for up to $1.6 million, as well as a 2008 painting titled “Forever” by Luc Tuymans for $1.6 million.
豪泽&沃思画廊(Hauser & Wirth)以150万美元售出马克·布拉德福德(Mark Bradford)的一幅画作，另外还售出亚历山大·考尔德的一幅画作和路易丝·布儒瓦(Louise Bourgeois)的3件作品，没有透露价格。纽约和伦敦的大卫·茨维尔纳画廊(David Zwirner)报告称，今年是它在该艺术展上销售最好的一年，售出了比利时艺术家迈克尔·博勒曼(Michaël Borremans)专门为香港巴塞尔艺术展创作的5件作品，总价160万美元，另外还以160万美元售出吕克·图伊曼斯(Luc Tuymans)2008年创作的一幅题为《永远》(Forever)的画作。
Tyler Rollins Fine Art in New York sold four works by the Vietnamese-American artist Tiffany Chung for $28,000 each. It also sold a large installation by Ms. Chung artist to M+, the museum of visual culture that is scheduled to open in Hong Kong in 2019.
纽约的泰勒·罗林斯美术馆(Tyler Rollins Fine Art)售出越南裔美国艺术家蒂法妮·钟(Tiffany Chung)的4件作品，每件2.8万美元。该美术馆还把钟的一件大型装置作品卖给了M+博物馆。M+是计划于2019年在香港开幕的一家视觉文化博物馆。
Among Asian galleries, Chemould Prescott Road of Mumbai, India, sold several works by the artist and architect Bijoy Jain of Studio Mumbai to the M Woods Museum in Beijing for $10,000 each. Ink Studio in Beijing, which was exhibiting at the fair for the first time, sold several works by Li Huasheng for between $58,000 and $120,000, while Long March Space in Beijing sold works by a number of Chinese artists, including Wang Jingwei and Zhan Wang.
亚洲画廊方面，印度孟买的切穆德·普雷斯科特之路画廊(Chemould Prescott Road)向北京的木木美术馆(M Woods Museum)售出了孟买工作室(Studio Mumbai)的艺术家兼建筑师比乔伊·贾殷(Bijoy Jain)的几件作品，每件1万美元。北京的墨斋画廊今年首次参加香港巴塞尔艺术展，售出了李华生的几件作品，价格在5.8万至12万美元之间。北京的长征空间画廊售出了很多中国艺术家的作品，包括汪建伟和展望的作品。
Many dealers, including Mr. Leng of Pace Asia, said that educating and forging links with new collectors in the region was as important as making sales.
包括佩斯亚洲的冷林在内的很多交易商表示，与这一地区的新收藏者们建立联系并培养他们，和销售一样重要。
“There might be big ebbs and flows, but it’s going to stay in a growth phase for a long time,” he said.
“可能会有大起大落，但是未来很长一段时间应该都是增长期。”他说。