HONG KONG — A blizzard of millions in cash paralyzed a road in Hong Kong on Wednesday afternoon, when a security van spilled bundles of Hong Kong 500 dollar notes, presenting onlookers with a Christmas Eve test of whether to be good for goodness’ sake.
香港——周三下午，上千万的现金从天而降，令香港的一条马路陷入瘫痪：一辆运钞车上掉下了成捆的500港元的钞票，在圣诞节前一天对路人进行了一次人性善恶的检验。
The police estimated that the equivalent of about $2 million was missing, local news reports said, suggesting that not everyone who saw the windfall had passed the goodness test.
据当地媒体报道，警方估计，不知去向的现金约合1220万元人民币。这意味着，并非每一个发现意外之财的人都通过了考验。
“Anyone who picked up the cash concerned should hand it over to the police as soon as possible,” a district police officer, Wan Siu-hong, told reporters, according to Radio Television Hong Kong, a public broadcaster. “Otherwise, they may have committed the crime of theft.”
“任何人如捡获有关现钞，应尽快将钱交于警方，”据公共广播香港电台网站(Radio Television Hong Kong)报道，警区助理指挥官温兆雄(Wan Siu-hong)告诉记者。“否则有机会干犯盗窃罪。”
Until mid-December, several Hong Kong streets had been blocked for nearly three months by protesters demanding democratic elections. But the latest, brief traffic snarl was more in keeping with this city that has a reputation for chasing the dollar.
截至12月中旬，香港的几条街道被要求进行民主选举的抗议者阻断了近三个月。不过，最近这次短暂的交通混乱则更加符合这座城市给外界留下的热衷于追逐财富的印象。
The money fluttered across an eight-lane section of Gloucester Road in the Wan Chai area after three plastic crates of the crisp, new notes fell from the back of the security van, news reports said, citing the police and bystanders.
媒体援引警方和路人的说法报道，装有崭新钞票的三个塑料箱从一辆运钞车的后面跌落下来之后，这些现钞就散落在了湾仔告士打道的一个八车道路段。
Traffic froze as people stepped out of their cars or walked onto the road to pick up the swirls of money. Now Television, a commercial broadcaster, showed video of people crouching on the road to snatch up the cash, but it was unclear whether they were helping recover the money or just helping themselves.
随着人们纷纷下车或步行到路中央去捡拾飘散的钞票，交通停滞了。商业广播公司Now Television播出的一段视频显示，不少人蹲在路上捡钱，但无法判断他们究竟是在帮着把钱收回来，还是仅仅在帮自己。
“Many people picked up cash and then left,” a man at the scene said in the television report. “One old lady picked up cash and gave it to the police when they turned up.”
“好多人捡了钱就走了，”一名在现场的男子在电视报道中称。“一个老太太捡了钱，警察来了以后交给了他们。”
The police cleared the road, but said about 15.23 million Hong Kong dollars was missing — about $2 million — according to the security transport company that reported the loss. They were less sure about just how the money fell out of the van.
通报此次损失的安全运输公司表示，警方清查了路面，但称少了1523万港元，约合1220万元人民币。不过，警方不太确定这些钱究竟为何会从运钞车上跌落下来。