HONG KONG — A former Hong Kong hairstylist whose rapid rise to wealth culminated in the takeover of the British soccer team Birmingham City was convicted on Monday of five counts in the laundering of a total of nearly $100 million from entities including casinos and people the authorities have described as gang members.
香港——周一，一名迅速发家致富并最终接管英国伯明翰足球俱乐部(Birmingham City)的前香港发型师被判定犯有5项洗钱罪，其洗钱总额将近1亿美元（约合6.1亿元人民币)，这些钱来自赌场，以及官方所谓的黑帮成员。
A district court judge in Hong Kong ruled that Carson Yeung, 54, had given testimony “bordering on the nonsensical” as the defendant sought to explain the millions of dollars that had flowed into his bank accounts from sources including a Macau casino operator and a man identified by the Hong Kong police as a senior triad leader.
香港某区法院法官判定，在试图解释涌入自己银行账户的千百万美元时，54岁的杨家诚(Carson Yeung)提供的证词“近乎荒谬”，而这些钱的来源包括澳门的一个赌场经营者，以及一名被香港警方认定为高级黑帮头目的男子。
“He did not care where the money came from, and he did not bother to ask,” Judge Douglas Yau said Monday, adding that Mr. Yeung had lied throughout his testimony. “He was just making it up as he went along.”
“他根本不在乎钱来自哪里，连问都不问，”游德康(Douglas Yau)法官周一说。他还说，杨家诚提供证词的时候一直都在说谎。“他就是在一边说一边编。”
Mr. Yeung, in a dark suit and tie, sat expressionless as the verdict was read in English and translated for him into Cantonese. Mr. Yeung had been free on bail throughout the trial but was taken into custody after the hearing Monday. He is scheduled to be sentenced Friday and faces a maximum prison term of seven years.
杨家诚身着黑色套装，打着领带，面无表情地坐在那里聆听裁决，裁决结果先是用英语朗读，然后再为杨家诚翻译成广东话。杨家诚在审判期间一直处于保释之下的自由状态，但已在周一的庭讯之后遭到拘押。按计划，对他的量刑将于周五宣布，刑期最高可达七年。
Mr. Yeung denied the charges.
杨家诚否认了相关指控。
He stepped into the limelight in 2007 when a company he controlled, Grandtop International Holdings, paid 234 million Hong Kong dollars, or about $30 million, for a 30 percent stake in the Birmingham City Football Club. Grandtop paid an additional 730 million dollars for the rest of the club in 2009, changing the company’s name to Birmingham International Holdings.
2007年，他控制的泓峰控股公司(Grandtop International Holdings)以2.34亿港元（约合3000万美元）买下了伯明翰足球俱乐部30%的股份，他也由此走到了聚光灯下。2009年，泓峰控股公司以7.3亿港元买下了俱乐部剩下的股份，并把公司的名字改成了伯明翰环球控股有限公司(Birmingham International Holdings)。
Mr. Yeung came from humble origins in Hong Kong’s Kowloon district, the son of a vegetable stall operator, and got his start as a freelance hairstylist in the 1980s.
杨家诚出身于香港九龙的一个普通家庭，是一名菜贩的儿子。他从20世纪80年代开始发迹，当时是一名兼职发型师。
But his relatively low-profile lifestyle began to change in the years leading to the Birmingham deal. The court heard how Mr. Yeung had paid 6 million dollars for a Maybach limousine and 49 million dollars for an 88-foot luxury yacht. In January 2005, he paid 70 million dollars for a half-share in a home in Hong Kong’s upscale Victoria Peak neighborhood, and in 2007 he bought a house in London for 5 million pounds, or $8.37 million.
但是，在达成伯明翰交易之前的几年当中，他相对低调的生活方式起了变化。根据法庭证词，杨家诚曾花600万港元买下一辆迈巴赫(Maybach)豪华轿车，还曾以4900万港元买下一艘长88英尺的豪华游艇。2005年1月，他斥资7000万港元买下了香港上流社区维多利亚山一所房屋的半份产权；2007年，他又以500万英镑（837万美元）在伦敦买下了一处房产。
Mr. Yeung was arrested in June 2011. Shares in Birmingham International, which is listed in Hong Kong and whose shares had been suspended since Mr. Yeung’s arrest, resumed trading last month after he stepped down from the company’s board and was replaced as chairman.
杨家诚于2011年6月被捕，在此之后，在香港上市的伯明翰环球控股有限公司股票停牌。上个月，在杨家诚卸任公司董事会主席之后，该公司股票恢复交易。
The money laundering charges focused on hundreds of transactions that took place between 2001 and 2007, totaling 721 million dollars. Those transactions involved five bank accounts Mr. Yeung controlled, two of which were in his father’s name. They were ruled to have the hallmarks of money laundering, meaning a reasonable person would have suspected the funds represented the proceeds of a crime.
洗钱指控主要涉及2001年至2007年间进行的数百笔交易，交易总额高达7.21亿港元。这些交易涉及杨家诚掌控的五个银行账户，其中两个账户在他父亲的名下。法院裁定，这些账户带有洗钱的特征，意思是一个理性的人会怀疑这些资金是非法收入。
Those transactions included 62 million dollars in checks issued by the Macau casino operator Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, or S.J.M., that had been deposited into Mr. Yeung’s accounts.
这些交易包括赌场经营商澳门博彩股份有限公司（Sociedade de Jogos de Macau，简称SJM）签发的总值6200万港元的支票，这些钱都存入了杨家诚的账户。
The judge also ruled that Mr. Yeung had questionable business dealings with Cheung Chi-tai, whom Judge Yau identified as a backer of the Neptune Group, a firm that invests in the Macau casino industry, and as a person believed by the Hong Kong police to be a senior member of the Wo Hop To triad society, a Chinese criminal organization.
法官还裁定，杨家诚与张治太(Cheung Chi-tai)有可疑的生意往来。游德康法官指出，张治太是投资澳门赌业的海王集团(Neptune Group)的赞助人，还被香港警方认定为中国犯罪组织三合会和合桃的高级成员。
Neither S.J.M. nor Mr. Cheung have been charged in connection with Mr. Yeung’s case. Mr. Yeung had argued in court that the casino money was gambling winnings.
SJM和张治太都没有因与杨家诚案有牵连而受到指控。杨家诚曾在法庭辩称，来自赌场的钱是通过赌博赢来的。
Mr. Yeung’s dealings with Mr. Cheung included a silent 20 percent share in the Hong Kong-listed company Massive Resources, later renamed Neptune Group. Mr. Yeung also was a partner with Mr. Cheung and another man, Lin Cheuk-fung, in investing in high-stakes gambling operations in Macau, as well as in a cruise ship that conducts gambling excursions from Hong Kong.
杨家诚与张治太的生意往来包括他在香港上市公司骏雷国际有限公司(Massive Resources)——后来改名为海王集团——秘密拥有的20%股份。杨家诚还曾与张治太、连棹锋(Lin Cheuk-fung)合伙在澳门投资高风险赌场，以及一艘从香港出发进行赌博旅行的游艇。
“It is a spectacular fall from grace,” Daniel Ivery, a Birmingham City fan who operates the website Often Partisan and who has written extensively about Mr. Yeung’s ownership of the team and legal problems, said outside the courtroom in Hong Kong’s Wan Chai district. “From what the judge has said, you can see how it was all a house of cards.”
“这可真是从天上掉到了地下，”伯明翰足球俱乐部球迷丹尼尔·伊韦里(Daniel Ivery)在香港湾仔区法院外说。“从法官说的来看，你能明白这一切都是空中楼阁。”伊韦里是Often Partisan网站的运营者，写过大量有关杨家诚的球队所有权及法律问题的文章。