As Chinese get ready for their Lunar New Year feasts, several areas in China have banned the sale of live chickens, and the Hong Kong government started culling 20,000 of the birds on Tuesday as fears grew about the spread of avian influenza.
就在中国人正为农历新年的聚餐忙碌之时，由于对禽流感蔓延的担心加重，中国多地下令禁止活禽交易，香港政府也于周二开始捕杀两万只家禽。
The decision to kill the chickens, all from a single Hong Kong market, came after officials detected a new case of the deadly H7N9 virus in a bird that had been imported from mainland China, across the border from Hong Kong in Guangdong Province. As a result of the discovery, officials shut down the market where the bird was sold and banned for 21 days the import of chickens from the mainland farm that was the source of the infected chicken.
这些家禽全部来自香港的一家市场，而之所以做出扑杀决定，是因为官员在其中检测出含有致命性H7N9病毒的新病例。带病家禽源自广东。出于这样的发现，官员关闭了销售这批家禽的市场，同时暂停活禽交易21天。
In southeastern China, New Year’s festivities often include the killing of a live chicken as part of the feast.
在中国东南部，农历新年庆祝活动中往往包括宰杀一只活禽来食用。
In addition to the measures in Hong Kong, the health authorities on the mainland have banned the trading of live chickens in the cities of Hangzhou, Ningbo and Jinhua in the eastern province of Zhejiang, and Shanghai will ban live poultry trading for three months starting Friday, the actual day of the Lunar New Year. Contact with live poultry remains the main means of transmission for the virus. Health officials stressed, however, that the H7N9 virus had yet to show any signs of human-to-human transmission, which would represent a dangerous mutation of the virus.
除了香港采取的几项措施外，内地的管理机构也下达指令，禁止在东部浙江省的杭州、宁波和金华交易活禽。上海则将于本周五的农历大年初一开始，暂停活禽交易三个月。与活禽接触仍是感染该病毒的主要途径。不过，卫生官员强调，H7N9病毒尚未显示出人传人的迹象，而人传人就意味着，病毒发生了危险的变异。
“There is no evidence of regular inter-human transmission, and the risk assessment of H7N9 epidemic outbreak is unchanged,” Shu Yuelong, director of the Chinese National Influenza Center, was quoted by the state-run Xinhua news agency as saying.
据官方媒体新华网报道，国家流感中心主任舒跃龙称，“未见其具备了能在人群中有效传播的能力，所以风险评估没有改变。”
The H7N9 virus was first detected last March, and more than 200 cases have been reported so far, with roughly 50 deaths tied to the flu. Officials are particularly alarmed about the potential for the virus to spread during this year’s holiday season, when hundreds of millions of Chinese travel home during a time of the year when the virus can spread more easily. Cases started popping up again recently in October, and the pace of new cases has accelerated in recent weeks.
H7N9病毒于去年3月首次检出，迄今为止有200多个报告病例，约50人的死亡与之有关。官员们对该病毒在今年春节假期中传播的可能性尤为警惕。有上亿民众在此期间返家，而所处的季节又刚好是流感病毒更易传播的时候。去年10月，相关病例又开始浮现，而且最近几周里新病例出现的频率呈加快之势。
The birds being killed in Hong Kong will be put down by carbon dioxide gas. The culling represents one of the largest such killings of live birds in the territory in recent years.
香港将采用注入二氧化碳气体的方式来捕杀家禽。这是香港境内近年来规模最大的扑杀活禽行动之一。