Customs officials in Hong Kong on Friday announced one of the largest seizures of smuggled ivory ever made in the city – and their fifth since last October — highlighting the pervasiveness of a trade that conservationists describe as an all-out crisis for elephant populations in Africa.
香港海关官员周五宣布抓获了当地历史上最大的象牙走私案之一，这是自去年10月以来抓获的第五起象牙走私案，突显出这一贸易的普遍性，生物保护者称象牙走私使非洲象的种群面临全面危机。
The shipment, consisting of 1,148 tusks weighing in at 4,800 pounds, was worth an estimated $2.25 million, according to a customs department statement.
海关部门的声明称，这批运货共有1148根象牙，重量为4800磅，价值估计为225万美元（约合1380.39万元人民币）。
The tusks were concealed in a container coming from the West African nation of Togo.
这些象牙被藏在一个从西非多哥共和国运来的集装箱内。
Rising affluence in Asia has caused demand for ivory and many other wildlife products to soar in recent years, putting many animal and plant species under severe pressure.
最近几年亚洲的富裕程度不断提高，导致对象牙和很多其他野生生物制品的需求飙升，这给很多动植物物种带来巨大的生存压力。
Despite rising awareness and warnings that poaching has pushed some species to the brink of extinction, enforcement and penalties often remain weak, and represent an insufficient deterrent to poachers and smugglers, wildlife experts say.
野生生物专家称，尽管偷猎让一些物种濒临灭绝的警报不断发出，而且人们对这个问题的意识在逐渐增强，但对偷猎的执法力度和惩罚依然较弱，不足以威慑偷猎者和走私者。
Tens of thousands of elephants have been killed for their tusks in recent years in Africa, where the revenues from the poached ivory are believed to be fueling conflicts across the continent.
最近几年，非洲有数万头大象被杀，就是为了获取象牙，有人认为偷猎象牙的收入也让非洲大陆的冲突不断加剧。
The fact that the number of large-scale shipments (nearly 1,800 pounds) has been on the increase also is indicative of organized criminal involvement, say experts at Traffic, an organization that monitors the trade in endangered wildlife.
监督濒危野生生物贸易的国际野生物贸易研究组织(Traffic)专家认为，大规模运货(超过约1800磅)的数量在增加，表明有组织的犯罪参与其中。
Two other seizures made in Hong Kong in the past nine months weighed in at just over nearly 2,900 pounds, while a shipment intercepted last October weighed more than 8,300 pounds. All originated from Africa.
香港在过去9个月中抓获的另外两起走私案中的象牙重量将近2900多磅，而去年十月份截获的一艘轮船上装有的象牙重量超过8300磅。这些象牙都来自非洲。
Hong Kong, Malaysia, Vietnam and the Philippines are the main transit points within Asia for large ivory consignments arriving from Africa, Richard Thomas, a spokesman for Traffic, said in an e-mail on Friday.
国际野生物贸易研究组织的发言人理查德·托马斯(Richard Thomas)周五在一封电子信中表示，香港、马拉西亚、越南和菲律宾是来自非洲的大批象牙运货在亚洲的主要中转站。