A surge in business loans to the slowing mainland Chinese economy has prompted Hong Kong regulators to impose strict financial rules four years before they are required under new global standards.
中国内地经济增长放缓，而由香港流向内地的商业贷款激增，这促使香港金融监管部门实施了严格的金融规则。这些规则的实施，比国际标准要求的期限早了四年。
The move is aimed at discouraging banks in Hong Kong from raising money by relying too heavily on short-term funds that can evaporate during periods of tumult. But big global banks have been resisting, over fears that the rules will cut into their profit by driving up loan costs.
此举的目的是让银行在融资时不要过于依赖短期资金，短期资金在市场动荡时很容易蒸发。但大型国际银行一直在抗拒，它们担新规则会提高贷款成本，削减它们的利润。
While the scale of Hong Kong lending to the mainland is still small compared with domestic lending in China, the rapid buildup has started to concern local regulators and the International Monetary Fund. Their caution stems from problems during the recent global financial crisis, as well as concerns about the current economic environment.
虽然与中国境内的贷款相比，香港对内地的贷款规模仍然较小，但贷款规模的快速增长已经开始令香港监管部门及国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)感到担忧。担忧源于最近的全球金融危机中暴露的问题，以及对当前经济环境的顾虑。
Worries are increasing about a credit squeeze in China. The Federal Reserve, too, is pulling back on its bond-buying program, a stimulus effort that has helped keep short-term interest rates low and has made plentiful capital available for emerging economies like China.
关于中国会出现信贷紧缩的忧虑日益加剧。美联储(Federal Reserve)也在撤回其债券购买计划，这一刺激举措在一定程度上将短期利率维持在低位，并使得中国等新兴经济体可以获得大量资本。
The concern is that some banks in Hong Kong may be overly vulnerable if the Chinese economy stumbles significantly.
人们担心，如果中国经济出现严重问题，香港的一些银行可能会极易受到冲击。
Overall lending by Hong Kong banks to mainland China companies and banks increased 32 percent last year, to $465 billion, according to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the territory’s central bank. Growth in lending accelerated further in January, although it slowed somewhat in the next three months.
香港的中央银行香港金融管理局(Hong Kong Monetary Authority)透露，香港的银行为内地的企业和银行提供的贷款总额去年增加了32%，达到4650亿美元（约合2.8万亿元人民币）。1月份的贷款增长进一步加速，不过增长速度在接下来的三个月里有所放缓。
The credit analysis firm Fitch Ratings, which looked at a wider range of transactions, particularly trade finance, said on Monday that local and foreign banks in Hong Kong had an even bigger exposure to mainland China, totaling $798 billion. By comparison, banks elsewhere in Asia and the Pacific — mainly Australia, Japan, Macau, Singapore and Taiwan — have lent roughly $400 billion to mainland China, according to Fitch, which used data from the Bank of International Settlements.
周一，信用分析公司惠誉评级(Fitch Ratings)表示，香港的本地及外国银行对中国内地的风险敞口变大，贷款总额达到7980亿美元。惠誉研究范围更广的交易，尤其是贸易融资。该公司计算，亚太其他地区——主要是澳大利亚、日本、澳门、新加坡和台湾——的银行向中国内地提供了大约4000亿美元的贷款，该公司使用的数据来自国际清算银行(Bank for International Settlements)。
“A ‘hard landing’ for China’s economy is a low-probability — but high-impact — downside risk to banks in Hong Kong,” Fitch said in a statement.
惠誉在一份声明中写道，“对于香港的银行来说，中国经济‘硬着陆’是一种概率低，但影响大的下行风险。”
The Hong Kong Monetary Authority is phasing in new rules for local and international banks that operate here. The regulators have notified 69 banks with briskly growing loan books that they need to increase their long-term sources of funding, like retail deposits. Reducing their reliance on short-term funds would make banks less likely to cut back lending and credit lines if they have trouble borrowing in the international markets.
香港金管局正针对在香港经营的本地及国际银行，逐步实施新规则。监管机构已经通知69家贷款迅速增加的银行，它们需要增加长期的资金来源，比如零售储蓄。如果降低银行对短期资金的依赖程度，银行在国际市场上借款遇到困难时，削减贷款规模及信贷额度的可能性就会降低。
The authorities also have been admonishing banks to scrutinize borrowers carefully, particularly if their loan books are growing at least 20 percent a year.
监管部门还告诫银行，要对借款人仔细核查，特别是在贷款金额每年至少增长20%的情况下。
“What we have been telling the banks all along is that when you expand your loan book at that sort of rate of growth, make sure of your credit” assessment practices, Arthur Yuen, the deputy chief executive for banking regulation at the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said in an interview.
香港金管局负责银行监管的副总裁阮国恒(Arthur Yuen)接受采访时表示，“一直以来，我们都在告诫银行，你们以这种速度扩大贷款规模时，一定要确保开展信用评估。”
Western and Japanese banks have been grumbling to the monetary authority. And a coalition of some of the world’s largest banks, the Asia Pacific Loan Market Association, is starting to become vocal on the issue, notably on the funding requirements. Banks “are concerned that this restricts the growth of the loan business in Hong Kong,” the group said in a statement.
西方及日本的银行向香港金管局表达了不满。由全球最大的一些银行组成的联盟亚太贷款市场协会(Asia Pacific Loan Market Association)也开始就该问题发表意见，尤其是资金规则的问题。该组织在一份声明中表示，银行“担心这会限制香港贷款业务的增长”。
Global banks have led the lending expansion, although with a few exceptions they have few or no deposits from Hong Kong residents. Those so-called wholesale banks say the new rules favor the banks with large bases of deposits here, including HSBC, Standard Chartered and Citigroup.
贷款规模的扩张是由国际银行引领的，这些银行极少甚至完全没有香港居民的储蓄，只有几家例外。这些被称为批发银行的机构表示，新规定对那些在香港拥有大量储蓄的银行有利，比如汇丰银行(HSBC)、渣打银行(Standard Chartered)和花旗集团(Citigroup)。
The wholesale banks tend to borrow money a day or a week at a time at what are now extremely low interest rates in global capital markets.
这些批发银行借入资金的期限往往为一天或一周，借款利率目前在全球资本市场上堪称极低。
The Hong Kong rules are aimed at matching new global regulations created in response to the financial crisis. The global rules, under the so-called Basel III accord, call for stable funding requirements, which push banks to rely less on short-term funding for long-term liabilities like loans.
香港实行的规则意在配合为应对金融危机而制定的新国际监管规则。《巴塞尔协议III》(Basel III)提出的国际规则，呼吁实施稳定的资本要求，促使银行在承担贷款等长期负债时，较少依赖短期资金。
But those rules are still being completed and don’t take effect until 2018. Hong Kong is moving more quickly, with banks being measured on funding as of March 31.
但这些规则仍在制定中，直到2018年才会生效。香港现在的动作较快，监管部门将会根据3月31的资金情况，对银行进行评估。
The swift response comes after Hong Kong’s experience in the financial crisis. While banks with large deposit bases in Hong Kong continued lending, wholesale banks reduced or cut off lines of credit for thousands of businesses here. That situation set off a wave of bankruptcies, even among export companies that had orders but suddenly lacked the cash to buy goods and ship them.
香港是在经历金融危机后迅速作出这一反应的。虽然在香港有大量存款基础的银行仍在持续放贷，但批发银行还是削减了对数千家本地企业的信贷支持，甚至终止了贷款。这种局面引发了一波破产潮，包括一些有订单的出口企业，因为它们突然之间没有足够的资金采购和运输货物了。
One of the senior policy makers who tried to address the problems at the time, Norman Chan, became the chief executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority in late 2009, a job he still holds. He has strongly backed the stable funding requirement.
尝试解决这个问题的高层决策者陈德霖(Norman Chan)，在2009年下半年成了香港金管局总裁，目前他依然在任。他一直坚定地支持稳定的资本金要求。
I.M.F. officials have been supportive, too. “We would judge that as a prudent measure,” said Allison Holland, the deputy chief of the I.M.F.’s monetary and capital markets department.
IMF官员也一直支持这一要求。IMF货币和资本市场部副主管艾莉森·霍兰(Allison Holland)说，“我们会认为，这是一种审慎的措施。”
The I.M.F. has scrutinized the buildup of mainland Chinese lending by financial institutions in Hong Kong in two reports in the last two months.
过去两个月里，IMF在两份报告中关注了香港金融机构扩大对内地贷款规模的趋势。
The reports called for the monetary authority to further increase its monitoring of mainland lending. But the I.M.F. concluded that the loans did not pose a systemic risk to the Hong Kong banking system except under extreme circumstances.
报告呼吁金管局对流向内地的贷款进一步加强监控。不过，IMF认为，这些贷款并未对香港银行体系构成系统性风险，除非发生极端情况。
For now, the loans are largely going to large companies with significant resources and backing, one reason the authorities haven’t hit the panic button.
目前，贷款的主要去向是那些拥有重要资源和背景的大公司，这也是监管部门并未太过紧张的一个原因。
Half of the mainland loans were to large state-owned enterprises, often to finance overseas expansion, with no single state-owned enterprise accounting for more than 1 percent.
有一半发放给内地的贷款流向了大型国有企业，这些资金往往用于企业的海外扩张。没有任何一家国有企业的贷款额占到贷款总额的1%以上。
Nearly a third of the loans were to the mainland operations of multinationals, often extended by banks from the same country; the Hong Kong offices of Australian banks, for example, have been particularly active in lending to the mainland subsidiaries of Australian multinationals.
几乎三分之一的贷款流向了跨国企业在中国的分支，贷款方往往和这些跨国企业来自同一个国家。例如，澳大利亚各银行的香港分行，一直在格外积极地向本国跨国企业的在华子公司发放贷款。
And the remaining 19 percent were to various mainland companies, usually with repayment guarantees from mainland banks or with real estate as collateral.
其余19%贷款流入了各种内地公司手中，这些贷款通常都得到了内地银行的还款担保，或者有不动产作为抵押。
Despite the diversity in borrowers, “it’s still important for the authorities to remain vigilant,” Ms. Holland said.
霍兰说，尽管借款人的身份多种多样，“但保持警惕对当局而言依然至关重要。”
Banks have been wary of saying anything publicly about the rules that might be construed as criticizing their regulator. Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup declined to comment on the new rules. Goldman Sachs is not affected because it does not have a banking license in Hong Kong and is regulated by the city’s Securities and Futures Commission.
银行一直小心翼翼地避免公开对前述规则发表任何意见，因为这种言论可能会被解读为对监管者的指责。美国银行(Bank of America)、摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)和花旗集团(Citigroup)拒绝对新规则发表评论。高盛(Goldman Sachs)没有受到影响，因为它没有在港营业的银行牌照，而是归香港证券及期货事务监察委员会(Securities and Futures Commission)监管。
One lingering question is why Hong Kong has quickly become a more attractive place to borrow. Lower interest rates help; a company can typically borrow money in Hong Kong for 2 percentage points less than in mainland China, said Sonny Hsu, the senior analyst for Hong Kong banks at Moody’s.
一个尚未解答的问题是，香港为什么迅速变成了更具吸引力的贷款来源地。穆迪(Moody’s)的香港银行业高级分析师徐崧宜(Sonny Hsu)说，较低的利息率是一个优势。通常在香港，企业能以比内地低两个百分点的利率借到钱。
Some experts see China’s international borrowing as an early warning sign of a troubled domestic banking sector that devotes increasingly more credit to companies and projects that will never be able to repay them in full.
在一些专家看来，中国内地的境外借款行为是中国国内银行业陷入困境的早期警示。那些银行正在把越来越多的贷款，发放给绝不可能全额偿还债务的公司和项目。
Other economists, as well as Hong Kong regulators and bankers, are skeptical that Chinese companies are borrowing in Hong Kong because they can no longer raise money at home.
另一些经济学家，以及香港的监管者和银行业者则认为，内地企业之所以从香港借钱，并不是因为它们在内地已经筹不到钱了。
They point out that much of the borrowing is in United States dollars, not renminbi, as many Chinese companies have stepped up overseas acquisitions; mainland Chinese banks have limited supplies of dollars to lend because the central bank relentlessly buys dollars instead to prevent the renminbi from appreciating in currency markets.
他们指出，由于许多中国企业加大了海外并购的力度，大部分贷款都是用美元，而非人民币支付的。由于内地央行持续购买美元，以防止人民币在外汇市场升值，因此内地银行可供贷款的美元供应量有限。
And there are few signs that a credit squeeze has become critical in China. Companies’ accounts receivable, for example, are rising no faster than sales.
没有什么迹象显示，中国内地的信贷紧缩已经到了严峻的地步。例如，企业应收帐款的增加并不比销售额的增加快。
“I still do not see major systemic stress,” said Louis Kuijs, the China economist in the Hong Kong office of the Royal Bank of Scotland.
苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)驻香港的中国经济师高路易(Louis Kuijs)说，“我依然没有看到重大的系统性压力。”