The first floor of the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center was already bustling when Lin Han arrived at the opening of Art Basel Hong Kong, Asia’s most important art fair.
当林瀚来到香港会议展览中心一层时，那里已经人头攒动，香港巴塞尔艺术展的开幕式正在这里举行，这是亚洲最重要的艺术展会。
In the three years since they began buying art, Mr. Lin, a Beijing-based collector, and his wife, Wanwan Lei, both 28, have built up a collection at lightning speed, acquiring over 300 works. But at the V.I.P. preview of the Hong Kong art fair on Tuesday, neither Mr. Lin nor Ms. Lei was in the mood to make any quick decisions. Indeed, some dealers noted that the atmosphere overall seemed more muted than last year’s, with fewer collectors in attendance and less frenzied first-day buying — not entirely unexpected given the recent economic slowdown in China.
林瀚是一位定居北京的收藏家，他和妻子雷晚晚都是28岁，两人购买艺术品仅仅三年，便迅速建立起了一批收藏，购买了300多件藏品。但是在周二的香港巴塞尔艺术展贵宾预展上，林瀚和晚晚都没心思做出迅速的决定。事实上，有些交易商注意到，整体氛围似乎比起去年沉寂，出席的藏家减少了，第一天的购买狂热也有所减退——鉴于近期中国经济增长放缓，这样的结果并不完全出人意料。
“We just bought a few works at Tefaf, so we are not rushed to buy anything here,” Mr. Lin explained, referring to the European Fine Art Fair this month in the Dutch town of Maastricht. Instead, he and Ms. Lei were more interested in browsing booths and promoting M Woods, their contemporary art museum in the 798 Art District of the Chinese capital.
“我们刚刚在Tefaf上买了几件东西，所以我们不急着在这儿买，”林瀚解释，他指的是本月在荷兰马斯特里赫特举办的欧洲艺术博览会。他和晚晚更乐于逛摊位，并推销他俩在北京798艺术区的当代艺术馆M Woods。
Mr. Lin is one of a number of rising young collectors from mainland China, a group that dealers describe as motivated, well informed and with more adventurous taste than the older generation of Chinese collectors.
林瀚是中国大陆崛起的年轻收藏家之一，交易商说这个群体非常积极、消息灵通，而且比老一辈收藏家更有冒险精神。
“The younger mainland Chinese collectors may have a reverence for the blue-chip heavyweight Western contemporary artists,” said Nick Simunovic, managing director of Gagosian Gallery Hong Kong. “But they are also actively seeking out work which you might not have imagined mainland Chinese collectors pursuing five years ago.”
“中国大陆的年轻收藏家可能对西方重量级的一流当代艺术家们怀有敬畏之情，”香港高古轩画廊总监尼克·西门诺维克(Nick Simunovic)说。“但是他们在积极寻找的那些作品，是一些五年前你根本想不到会有中国大陆收藏家买下来的。”
Some dealers note that the younger Chinese collectors lack the buying power of their elders. But although they may not be setting auction records with their purchases, many are exploring and collecting lesser-known artists. And unlike their older counterparts, they are more likely to have spent time abroad. As a result, dealers say, many are less concerned with nationality and feel more comfortable buying works by non-Chinese artists.
有些交易商指出，年轻的中国收藏家的购买力不如老一辈。但是，尽管他们的购买无法创下拍卖纪录，很多人在探索和收藏知名度较小的艺术家。和老一辈不同，他们更愿意在海外花时间。交易商们说，因此，很多人并不在乎国籍，更乐意购买来自中国之外的艺术家的作品。
Mr. Lin’s personal collection, for example, includes works by Tracey Emin and John Currin, but also less established artists like Richard Lin, Ouyang Chun, Firenze Lai and Charles Harlan. Recently, he and Ms. Lei, who earned a graduate degree in arts administration at Columbia University, have taken a keen interest in old masters.
比如说，林瀚的收藏中就包括了翠西·艾敏(Tracey Emin)和约翰·科瑞(John Currin)的作品，但也包括不那么知名的艺术家的作品，诸如林寿宇(Richard Lin)、欧阳春、黎清妍(Firenze Lai)、查尔斯·哈兰(Charles Harlan)的作品。最近，他和拥有哥伦比亚大学艺术管理硕士学位的晚晚又迷上了老一辈大师。
That eclecticism was on display on Tuesday when Mr. Lin homed in on several works by the architect and artist Bijoy Jain at the booth of the gallery Chemould Prescott Road, based in Mumbai, India.
周二的展会上，两人也表现出了这种兼收并容的精神，林瀚来到印度孟买画廊“切莫尔德·普莱斯科特路”(Chemould Prescott Road)的展位前，观赏建筑师兼艺术家比乔伊·杰恩(Bijoy Jain)的作品。
“This feels fresh to me,” said Mr. Lin, as he leaned in to inspect one work, a pigment trace on cement of a ceremonial building in India.
“我觉得很新鲜，”林瀚凑近身子，仔细观察一件作品，这是印度一栋仪式建筑上的水泥残片，上面有颜料的痕迹。
It was the closest Mr. Lin came to buying anything on Tuesday. For the next four hours, he, Ms. Lei and Presca Ahn, the American director of their museum, merely took in the show.
这是林瀚在周二唯一差一点儿就掏钱了的时刻。接下来的四个小时里，他和晚晚以及他们博物馆的美国馆长普莱斯卡·安(Presca Ahn)就只是看展览而已。
The recent slowdown of the Chinese economy appears to have put a damper on art buying by all mainland collectors, regardless of their age, with total sales in the Chinese market having dropped 23 percent to $11.8 billion in 2015, according to the Tefaf report. Last year, Britain supplanted China as the second-largest market for art sales, after the United States, the report found.
不管年龄如何，近期中国经济增长的放缓似乎给所有中国大陆收藏者的购买都泼了冷水。根据Tefaf的报告，2015年，中国市场的总销量降低了23%，总共为118亿美元。报告还说，去年，英国取代了中国，成为艺术品销售的第二大市场，位居美国之后。
While dealers say the economic slowdown has been most acutely felt by the auction houses, the final results from Art Basel Hong Kong are still being looked to as an important measure of the state of the art market in Asia.
交易商们说，对于经济放缓，拍卖行是最敏感的，但香港巴塞尔艺术展的最终结果仍被视为亚洲艺术市场现状的重要指标。
On the whole, there was a sense among dealers and collectors that the quality of the works at the Hong Kong fair, which this year included 239 galleries, was stronger than in previous years.
今年的香港巴塞尔艺术展有239家画廊参展，总体来说，交易商与收藏家们都觉得，今年艺术品的质量比往年要高。
Highlights among Western galleries included Hauser & Wirth, which brought a mammoth bronze Louise Bourgeois sculpture from 2003, “Spider Couple,” and Alexander Calder’s 1967 mobile “Morning Cobweb.” Marianne Boesky Gallery presented a solo exhibition of Frank Stella, including a 13-foot-tall wooden star.
西方画廊的亮点包括豪瑟和沃斯(Hauser & Wirth)，他们带来了路易丝·布尔乔亚( Louise Bourgeois )一尊巨大的青铜雕塑，创作于2003年，名为《蜘蛛伴侣》(Spider Couple)，此外还有亚历山大·考尔德(Alexander Calder)1967年的活动装置《清晨蜘蛛网》(Morning Cobweb)。玛丽安娜·博伊斯基画廊(Marianne Boesky Gallery)带来了弗兰克·斯代拉(Frank Stella)的个展，包括一颗13英尺高的木制星星。
Asian galleries also made a strong showing, with Eslite Gallery from Taiwan presenting a solo show of David Diao. For its first show at the fair, the Beijing-based Ink Studio brought a booth devoted to the Chinese artist Li Huasheng.
亚洲画廊也有强劲表现，台湾的诚品画廊(Eslite Gallery)带来了刁德谦(David Diao)的个展。第一次参加展会的北京墨斋画廊摊位上全部是艺术家李华生的作品。
“The fair has had a reputation for being a dumping ground for galleries,” said Adeline Ooi, Asia director for Art Basel. “But that’s changing, and people are taking our clientele seriously. No one thinks they are going to sell out in an hour within the fair opening. But I think that’s good for us, because it means the quality of the show has to be solid, the galleries have to bring their best stuff to Asia.”
“展会素来是画廊甩卖作品的地方，”巴塞尔艺术展亚洲总监黄雅君(Adeline Ooi)说，“但现在已经不一样了，人们很认真地对待我们的客户。没有人觉得他们能在展会开幕一小时之内卖掉所有东西。但我觉得这对我们来说很好，因为这意味着展会的质量有保证，画廊必须把最好的东西带来亚洲。”
Although Mr. Lin, who grew up in Beijing and studied in Singapore and Britain, declined to say how much he had invested in art since 2013, he projected that he would spend about $3 million this year. To set up M Woods, which opened to the public in 2014, he estimated his outlay at about $1.5 million.
尽管北京长大、在新加坡与英国读书的林瀚拒绝透露自己从2013年至今在艺术品上投资了多少，但他预测自己今年会投资300万美元购买艺术品。为了创立2014年对公众开放的M Woods，他大约投入了150万美元。
He said that some of that money had been lent to him by his parents, both onetime members of the military who are now in business. But he said that most of his wealth had come from a luxury-brand public relations company he founded and from real estate investments.
他说，有些钱是父母借给他的。他父母都是退伍军人，如今在经商。但他说，自己的大部分财富都是来源于自己创建的一家奢侈品牌公关公司，以及房地产投资。
M Woods, housed in a 27,000-square-foot former munitions factory, has hosted several exhibitions, including a solo show of the Dutch artist Guido van der Werve. An Andy Warhol show is scheduled to open in August.
M Woods坐落在一处27000平方英尺的前军工厂内，已经举办过若干展览，包括荷兰艺术家圭多·范·德·卫夫(Guido van der Werve)的个展。今年8月这里还将举办一场安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)展。
“Some people might think I’m just doing this because I have money and am looking for a hobby,” said Mr. Lin, taking a break to drink some coconut water at the fair. “But for me, art is no longer just a hobby. Art has become an undertaking for me. I might make decisions quickly, but it truly is something that I love.”
“有些人可能觉得我做这些事是因为我有钱，拿这个当爱好，”在展会上，林瀚喝着椰子水休息的时候说。“但对于我来说，艺术已经不再仅仅是爱好。艺术已经成了我的事业。我可能做决定会很快，但那必须是我非常喜欢的东西。”