The Chinese sculptor Lei Yixin finished removing a contentious phrase on the memorial for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. on Thursday in preparation for the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington at the end of the month.
本周四，中国雕塑家雷宜锌去除了他在牧师小马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King Jr.)博士雕像上刻下的有争议的一句话，为本月末举行的华盛顿大游行(March on Washington)50周年纪念活动做好准备。
The phrase came from Dr. King’s “Drum Major Instinct” speech. It read, “I was a drum major for justice, peace and righteousness.”
这句话来自金博士的演讲《指挥本能》(Drum Major Instinct)，是这么说的，“我是一名追求公平、和平和正义的指挥。”
Critics of the memorial, including the poet Maya Angelou, said the phrase did not show the true nature of the full quotation. The actual quotation was: “Yes, if you want to say that I was a drum major, say that I was a drum major for justice. Say that I was a drum major for peace. I was a drum major for righteousness. And all of the other shallow things will not matter.”
包括诗人马娅·安杰卢(Maya Angelou)在内的雕像批评者说，这段铭文没有显示出金博士完整原话的真实本意。原话是：“好吧，如果你非要说我是一名指挥，那就要说我是一名追求公正的指挥，说我是一名追求和平的指挥，说我是一名追求正义的指挥。所有其他肤浅的事物都无关紧要。”
The quotation was taken from a 1968 sermon that Dr. King delivered at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, two months before he was assassinated.
这段话截取自金博士于1968年在亚特兰大市埃比尼泽浸礼会教堂(Ebenezer Baptist Church)发表的布道致辞，两个月后他遇刺身亡。
Mr. Lei began removing the phrase on Monday. Officials from the National Park Service, which maintains the memorial on the National Mall, said that Mr. Lei planned to carve grooves over the area where the phrase sat to match existing horizontal striation marks in the statute. Mr. Lei spoke at a news conference on Thursday morning, using his son as his interpreter.
雷宜锌于周一开始去除铭文。负责雕像在国家广场(National Mall)维护的美国公园管理局(National Park Service)官员说，雷宜锌计划在铭文所在的部位，刻上和雕像上现存横纹相匹配的纹路。雷宜锌在周四上午的一场新闻发布会上发表了讲话，他的儿子充当翻译。
“He feels that it was an honor to work with the M.L.K. Foundation to make the memorial,” said Mr. Lei’s son, Shi Ke. “He has put a lot of effort and heart into the statue. He thinks that Americans would not regret to pick him as the sculptor.”
他的儿子雷时科（音）说，“他觉得，和马丁·路德·金基金会(M.L.K. Foundation)合作制作纪念雕像是一种荣幸。他对雕像投入了大量的精力和心血。他认为，美国人不会后悔选择他作为雕塑师。”
The work is expected to be finished by Aug. 28, the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington. Park Service officials said that it could be finished before then but that the date depended on the weather: the team cannot operate power tools in the rain.
工程预计将在今年8月28日，即华盛顿大游行50周年纪念日之前完成。公园管理局的官员说，也可能会提前完成，不过这取决于天气情况：团队无法在雨中使用电动工具。
Carol Johnson, a spokeswoman for the National Mall and Memorial Parks, said the Park Service was using money that had been allocated for the construction of the memorial to remove the phrase. The memorial cost $110 million to build, and the current project will run $700,000 to $900,000.
国家广场和纪念公园(National Mall and Memorial Parks)的一名女发言人卡萝尔·约翰逊(Carol Johnson)说，公园管理局在动用修建纪念雕像的拨款去除铭文。雕像的建造成本是1.1亿美元（约合6.74亿元人民币），目前的工程将花费70万到90万美元。
Since the memorial opened in August 2011, many critics have said the quotation made Dr. King appear arrogant and should also be removed because it was historically inaccurate. Mr. Lei has said he paraphrased it because the original was too long.
自雕像于2011年8月对外开放以来，许多批评者都说，这段铭文让金博士显得傲慢，铭文应被去除的另一个原因是引用不准确。雷宜锌说，他改编了这段铭文，是因为原文太长了。
“He thought it would look better shortened,” Ms. Johnson said. She added that it was important to bring back the original team of workers because of its familiarity with the sculpture.
约翰逊说，“他原以为，短一点会让铭文看起来更好。”她补充说，找原班人马来进行修整很重要，因为他们熟悉雕像。
On Thursday, several workers stood on scaffolding erected around the memorial and used power tools on its surface. The memorial was hidden behind shrouds to prevent debris from falling on visitors.
周四，几名工人站在雕像周围竖起的脚手架上，用电动工具处理雕像的表面。雕像外覆有保护罩以防碎片掉到游客身上。
“When people come from all over the world to visit, we know it is disappointing,” Ms. Johnson said. “But a big effort here is conservation, so we have to do what we have to do.”
约翰逊说，“当人们从世界各地到这里来参观，我们知道，这让人失望。不过，我们的一项重任就是保护，因此我们必须做我们该做的事。”
Members of the public are allowed to visit the memorial as work continues. About 5.2 million people visited the statue last year, and park officials said people were continuing to come despite the construction.
修整工作进行期间，公众仍可以参观雕像。去年，大约有520万人参观了雕像，纪念园管理人员说，尽管施工在进行，人们依然不断地赶来参观。
A steady stream of tourists wandered around the memorial on Thursday. They stopped to get a view of the construction and asked Park Service rangers at the statue what was going on.
周四，络绎不绝的游客在雕像周围闲逛。他们停下来观看施工，然后询问雕像边的公园管理局管理员，这里究竟发生了什么事。
“People are very moved by it, and they are still coming,” Ms. Johnson said.
约翰逊说，“人们被雕像深深打动了，还在不断地赶来参观。”