At the resplendent China World Hotel in Beijing, scores of cameras snapped as colorful confetti floated down from the ceiling. It was Aug. 11, 2005, and this was the global coming-out party for Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce upstart. After months of frantic negotiations, the American Internet giant Yahoo had agreed to invest $1 billion in cash and create deeper business ties, in exchange for a 40 percent stake in Alibaba.
在北京的富丽堂皇的中国大饭店，随着五彩缤纷的纸屑从天花板上飘落下来，几十台相机纷纷按下了快门。那一天是2005年8月11日，正在举行中国电子商务初创企业阿里巴巴的全球亮相派对。在几个月的紧张谈判后，美国互联网巨头雅虎(Yahoo)终于同意投资10亿美元，并建立更深入的商业关系，以获得阿里巴巴40%的股份。
Alibaba’s founder, Jack Ma, thin, energetic and standing just over five feet tall, was beaming. He gushed that it was China’s Valentine’s Day and this was a beautiful match: “You’d be foolish if you said no.” It was his coming-out party too; the partnership would pave the way for Alibaba to become an international juggernaut.
阿里巴巴的创始人马云(Jack Ma)满面笑容。他身高仅一米六左右，精瘦而干练。马云滔滔不绝地说，今天是中国的情人节，雅虎和阿里巴巴是一对完美的组合：“如果你拒绝，你就是太傻了。”这也是马云的亮相派对；这次合作将会为阿里巴巴成长为国际巨头铺平道路。
For days, Mr. Ma was almost giddy about a deal that provided his company with a huge infusion of money and unfettered access to Yahoo’s search technology. He was particularly effusive that eBay and Meg Whitman, who was then its chief executive, had enticed Yahoo to make a competing offer by bidding so aggressively for Alibaba. “Thank you, Meg Whitman,” Mr. Ma joked at the time. “Thank you for making all of this possible.”
一连几天，马云几乎兴奋得忘乎所以。这笔交易为公司注入了大量资金，并使其能够自由使用雅虎的搜索技术。让他颇为得意的是，eBay及其时任首席执行官梅格·惠特曼(Meg Whitman)通过非常积极的收购尝试，诱使雅虎对阿里巴巴进行竞价。“谢谢你，梅格·惠特曼，”马云当时开玩笑说，“谢谢你让这一切成为可能。”
But Mr. Ma soon started having second thoughts about the partnership. He worried that he had sold the stake too cheaply and given up too much control.
但马云对这笔交易的看法很快发生了改变。他担心自己把股份卖得太便宜了，而且也让渡了太多控制权。
Trying to buy back most, if not all, of Alibaba’s shares, Mr. Ma started talks that dragged on for several years. With the relationship souring, Mr. Ma transferred ownership of Alibaba’s fast-growing online payment service, Alipay, to an entity that he controlled. He didn’t get the permission of Alibaba’s board. He just went ahead and did it.
为了回购多数乃至所有股份，马云开始了长达数年的谈判。随着双方关系的恶化，马云把阿里巴巴快速增长的在线支付服务支付宝(Alipay)的所有权转让给了一个由自己控制的实体。他没有获得阿里巴巴董事会的同意，但仍然这么做了。
While Yahoo complained, Mr. Ma seemed to get everything he wanted, eventually. In 2011, he negotiated an agreement giving him and a handful of key lieutenants a majority stake in Alipay, one of the company’s crown jewels. A year later, Mr. Ma secured a plan for Yahoo to reduce its stake in Alibaba.
尽管雅虎表达了不满，马云似乎最终都如愿以偿。2011年，他通过谈判达成了一项协议，使自己和几名主要的副手获得了支付宝的多数股份。支付宝被誉为公司王冠上的明珠。一年后，马云敲定了一份让雅虎减少在阿里巴巴持股的方案。
When the Alibaba Group goes public later this month in an offering that could value the company at about $160 billion, investors will have little doubt about who is in control of the company. Mr. Ma, 49, is the public face. He is the chief negotiator. He is the top strategist. He is the biggest individual investor, with a 9 percent stake.
阿里巴巴集团本月晚些时候启动令公司估值或将达到1600亿美元的首次公开募股(IPO)时，投资者对于谁是这家公司的掌控者将不会有任何疑问。现年49岁的马云是公司的代言人、首席谈判员和最高策略师。他是最大的个人股东，持有9%的股份。
Alibaba, a company started out of Mr. Ma’s apartment in 1999, is now a technology colossus worth more than American stalwarts like eBay and Hewlett-Packard. Under his leadership, Alibaba has become not just the dominant force in China’s e-commerce but also a symbol of the country’s breathtaking economic rise. The company has 250 million active buyers in China, and its orders account for more than 60 percent of all package deliveries in China.
1999年在马云公寓里成立的阿里巴巴，如今已成为一家科技业巨擘，它的价值已超过eBay和惠普(Hewlett-Packard)等美国大型企业。在马云的领导下，阿里巴巴不仅成为了中国电子商务领域的主导力量，还成为了中国令人叹为观止的经济增长的一个象征。这家公司在中国拥有2.5亿活跃买家，其订单占了中国全部快递业务的60%以上。
That success has helped make Jack Ma a kind of celebrity C.E.O., an executive comfortable hobnobbing with business moguls in Davos, leading tours of his company for China’s political elite and promoting the “Wisdom of Jack Ma” in books and on DVDs. The initial public offering could make Mr. Ma, already one of China’s richest men, worth more than $15 billion. He has already pledged to give away much of that wealth, which would instantly make him one of the world’s major philanthropists.
这种成功已经让马云变成了某种明星CEO，一位能够在达沃斯与商界巨头谈笑风生的高管，他曾带领中国的高官参观自己的企业，并通过图书和DVD宣传“马云的智慧”。他已经是中国的顶尖富豪之一，而这次IPO可能会让他的身价超过150亿美元。马云已经承诺将捐出很大一部分财富，这将使他迅速跻身世界最主要慈善家的行列。
Mr. Ma has grown accustomed to doing things his way. He regularly strikes deals with close friends and buys companies in seemingly unrelated industries. At times, it is hard to determine whether an investment is personal or professional, because the boundaries between Mr. Ma’s portfolio and Alibaba’s holdings can blur.
马云已经习惯了以自己的方式做事。他常常与关系密切的朋友达成交易，在看似无关的领域实施收购。有时很难判断他的投资是出于个人原因还是业务原因，因为马云的个人投资与阿里巴巴的资产之间的界限有时非常模糊。
Such activities are not always transparent, a potential red flag for new shareholders in a public company. Like many Chinese companies, Alibaba also operates behind a cloak of complicated ownership structures, which may limit dissenting shareholders’ objections.
这样的活动并不总是透明的，这对上市公司的新投资者可能是一个预警信号。就像许多中国企业一样，阿里巴巴也在复杂的所有权结构之下运营，而这可能会限制股东的否决权。
Rebellious and Precocious
既叛逆又早熟
Mr. Ma grew up in the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou, the middle of three children born to a pair of performers of pingtan, a traditional musical storytelling technique. Neighbors called him a troublesome and often rebellious young boy, but he may have just been precocious.
马云生长在中国东部的杭州市，是家里三个孩子中的老二。他的父母都是评弹演员，这是一种传统的说唱艺术。邻居们说，马云小时候爱闯祸，而且常常很不听话。不过，马云或许还很早熟。
At 10, Ma Yun, as he is known in Chinese, took a liking to English and would ride his bicycle to the Hangzhou Hotel to practice with foreign tourists, an experience he said opened his mind to the outside world.
10岁的时候，马云喜欢上了英语，他会骑着自行车去杭州大酒店，与外国游客练习口语。他说，这段经历让他看到了外面的世界。
His poor math skills almost prevented him from attending college. But after passing the national college entrance exam on the third try, Mr. Ma gained admission to a local teachers’ college, where he excelled and was elected president of the student union. When he graduated in 1988, he took a $14-a-month job teaching English at the Hangzhou Institute of Electronic Engineering and quickly became one of its most popular instructors.
因为数学成绩太差，马云差点没能进入大学。在第三次参加高考之后，马云被当地的一所师范学院录取。他在学校表现突出，当选学生会主席。1988年毕业时，他得到了在杭州电子工业学院教英语的工作，月工资14美元，并很快成为学校最受欢迎的教师之一。
With China’s economy beginning to take flight, Mr. Ma saw opportunity in entrepreneurship. In his spare time, friends say, he co-founded a translation agency, sold medicine and dabbled in stocks. “If I’m not a millionaire by the time I’m 35,” he joked with his friend Qi Xiaoning, “please kill me!”
随着中国经济开始腾飞，马云看到了创办企业的机会。他的朋友们说，马云在空闲时间与他人合办了一家翻译公司，此外，他还销售药品、炒股。“如果我35岁还没成为百万富翁，你就杀了我吧。”他和朋友齐晓宁（音译）开玩笑说。
He visited the United States for the first time in 1995. Mr. Ma had befriended Bill Aho, an American who taught English in Hangzhou, and stayed with Mr. Aho’s relatives in Seattle. There, he was introduced to the World Wide Web by Mr. Aho’s son-in-law, Stuart Trusty, who ran one of America’s first Internet service providers, VBN.
1995年，马云第一次来到了美国。他此前与在杭州教英语的美国人比尔·阿霍(Bill Aho)结交，因此住在了阿霍在西雅图的亲戚家。在那里，阿霍的女婿斯图尔特·特拉斯蒂(Stuart Trusty)第一次向马云介绍了万维网。特拉斯蒂当时经营着美国的首批互联网服务提供商之一，VBN公司。
“At that time, I had an office in the U.S. Bank tower, and Jack came and I showed him what the Internet was,” Mr. Trusty says. “Back then, the Internet was largely a directory for governments and businesses, but he seemed excited.”
“当时，我在联邦银行大厦有一间办公室，杰克来后，我向他展示了什么是互联网，”特拉斯蒂说。“那时，互联网基本上只是一个供政府和企业使用的指南，但他似乎很兴奋。”
Mr. Ma returned home and set up one of the country’s first web companies, China Pages, an online directory for domestic businesses looking for customers overseas. Former colleagues say Mr. Ma worked tirelessly, knocking on doors, taking photos, collecting information and translating it into English. When done, he mailed the listings to VBN in Seattle to post on the web.
马云回到家，创办了中国最早的网络公司之一“中国黄页”(China Pages)；这是一个在线目录，帮助国内企业寻找海外客户。前同事说马云不知疲倦地工作、向企业推荐该服务、拍摄照片、收集信息，并将之译成英语。完成之后，他把目录交给西雅图的VBN，发布到互联网上。
“At that time, the concept of the Internet was foreign to the Chinese people — people had no idea and no reaction when we introduced them to the idea,” said Yu Xiaohong, one of Mr. Ma’s partners at China Pages.
“那个时候，互联网的概念对中国人来说还很陌生——我们在做介绍时，大家很茫然，没有反应，”马云在“中国黄页”的合作伙伴之一俞晓鸿说。
China Pages struggled at first, but Mr. Ma was optimistic. During a 1996 trip to Seattle to meet his partners at VBN, he seemed confident he would strike it rich, says Mr. Aho, who traveled with him.
“中国黄页”一开始步履蹒跚，但马云很乐观。1996年，他有一次去西雅图见VBN的伙伴时，显得很有信心，觉得自己以后会变得富有，与他一起旅行的阿霍说。
“I remember him looking at the expensive houses in the Queen Anne Hill area,” Mr. Aho recalls. “He’d point at houses and say, ‘When I get rich, I’m going to buy that house there, and that house. ...’ And at that time, he didn’t have a nickel.”
“我记得，他看着安妮女王山地区昂贵的房子，”阿霍回忆道。“他指着房子说：‘等有钱了，我要买那栋房子，还有那所房子……’那个时候，他还一文不名。”
Then Mr. Ma lost control of his company. In 1996, China Pages was pressured into forming a joint venture with Hangzhou Telecom. The deal put the government firmly in charge.
然后马云失去了对这家公司的控制权。1996年，“中国黄页”被迫与杭州电信成立了一家合资企业。通过这笔交易，政府获得了对“中国黄页”的控制权。
Discouraged, Mr. Ma went to Beijing to work at Infoshare, an Internet advertising agency set up under China’s Ministry of Commerce. Mr. Ma lasted just 14 months at Infoshare. Itching to run his own company, he returned to Hangzhou. “At that time, I felt it was too tiring doing e-commerce in the government,” Mr. Ma said in a 2005 interview. “E-commerce should start with private enterprises.”
气馁的马云去了北京，在商务部办的互联网广告公司国富通(Infoshare)工作。他在那里只待了14个月。马云非常想自己办公司，于是回到杭州。“那时候，我觉得在政府机构做电子商务真是太累人了，”他在2005年的一次采访中说。“电子商务应该从私营企业开始做起。”
‘With or Without You’ 
“无论你参不参与”
When Mr. Ma started Alibaba on Feb. 21, 1999, he asked 17 friends to gather in his second-floor apartment at the Lakeside Gardens in Hangzhou. In the makeshift headquarters, he gave a long talk about his ambitions and how much China needed a great start-up. He picked the name, he later explained, because “everyone knows the story of Alibaba. He’s a young man who is willing to help others.”
马云于1999年2月21日创办了阿里巴巴，当时他把17个朋友聚集到杭州湖滨花园二楼他的公寓里。在这个临时总部里，他高谈阔论，谈到了自己的雄心，以及中国多么需要一个卓越的创业公司。阿里巴巴的名字是马云选的，后来他解释说，因为“大家都知道阿里巴巴的故事。阿里巴巴是一个愿意帮助别人的年轻人。”
The company was built on a similar premise: to help businesses find overseas customers. If an American retailer was looking for a supplier of cotton slippers in China, it might turn to Alibaba.com. If a Chinese producer of buttons wanted to export to South Korea, it could advertise on the site. Alibaba, as he saw it, would be a virtual meeting room for small and medium-size businesses engaged in global trade.
该公司也有一个类似的宗旨：帮助企业寻找海外客户。如果美国零售商想找一家中国供应商提供棉拖鞋，它可能就会上阿里巴巴(alibaba.com)。如果一家中国生产商想把自己的纽扣出口到韩国，它也可以在这个网站上做宣传广告。按照马云的想法，阿里巴巴将成为一个虚拟会议室，为有意开展全球贸易的中小型企业服务。
Early on, Shirley Lin, a Goldman Sachs banker, visited Mr. Ma’s apartment. She had heard about the company from a friend, Joseph Tsai, a Yale-educated former lawyer who had recently joined Alibaba.
公司创办之初，来自高盛(Goldman Sachs)的银行从业者林夏如(Shirley Lin)参观了马云的公寓。她是从一位朋友那里听说阿里巴巴的，那位朋友叫蔡崇信(Joseph Tsai)，毕业于耶鲁，当过律师，不久前加入了阿里巴巴。
“I went up to the apartment, where they were all working 24/7,” says Ms. Lin, who now teaches at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. “The whole place stank — all those instant noodles. Jack’s ideas were not entirely original — they had been tried in other countries. But he was completely dedicated to making them work in China. I was moved by what I saw.”
“我前去那所公寓，在那里，所有人都在没日没夜地工作。”现在香港中文大学任教的林夏如说：“整个公寓弥漫着一股怪味——他们泡了很多方便面吃。马云的想法并非首开先河——其他国家也有人尝试过。但马云全心全意地致力于它在中国的发展。这些所见所闻让我感动。”
A month later, Goldman led a $5 million investment in the company. Soon after, Masayoshi Son, the chairman of Japan’s SoftBank and one of the world’s richest men, agreed to lead a second round of financing worth $20 million. Along with foreign investors, Mr. Ma shared a large chunk of the company with his 17 co-founders; most were friends and former students, and also among them was his wife, Cathy.
一个月后，高盛牵头投资了500万美元给阿里巴巴。不久之后，日本软银董事长、世界上最富有的人之一孙正义(Masayoshi Son)同意牵头进行价值2000万美元的第二轮融资。除了外国投资者外，马云还和17位共同创始人分享了公司的很大一部分股份；这17人中很多都是他的朋友和前学生，他妻子张瑛也在其中。
“This was really unusual, his willingness to share,” says Chauncey Shey, who works for SoftBank and helped make the initial investment. “Most founders aren’t willing to do that, and so that gave us more confidence in him.”
“他愿意与人共享成果，这一点很不寻常，”在软银工作的薛村禾(Chauncey Shey)说，他协助开展了相关的早期投资。“大部分创始人都不愿意这样做，所以这让我们对他更有信心了。”
But power was still largely concentrated in Mr. Ma’s hands. He and his top deputy, Mr. Tsai, held two of the company’s four board seats. Mr. Ma also controlled the underlying companies that Alibaba used to operate in China.
但权力仍然主要集中在马云手中。他和副手蔡崇信占有了该公司四个董事会席位中的两个。此外马云还控制着阿里巴巴用来在中国经营业务的底层公司。
To avoid running into a problem, Mr. Ma set up an offshore holding company in the Cayman Islands. Foreign investors buy shares in the offshore entity and are contractually entitled to the profit. But most of Alibaba’s assets are actually owned by Mr. Ma and another co-founder, Simon Xie.
为了避免遇到问题，马云在开曼群岛设立了一家离岸控股公司。外国投资者在这个离岸公司购买股票，并根据合同获取利润。但阿里巴巴的大部分的资产其实还是掌握在马云和另一位联合创始人谢世煌(Simon Xie)手里。
The ownership structure — known as the variable interest entity — is common among Chinese Internet companies. But it holds risks for shareholders, because it may leave them without the usual protections. (In June a United States government commission warned Americans about investing in Chinese companies using the complex V.I.E. structure, saying in a report to Congress that “a major risk is that the Chinese shareholder of the V.I.E. will steal the entity, ignoring the legal arrangements on which the system is based.”)
这种所有制结构称为“可变利益实体”(VIE)，在中国的互联网公司中很常见。但对股东来说，VIE风险较大，因为股东缺乏通常会有的保护机制。（今年6月，美国政府的一个委员会，对那些使用复杂VIE结构投资中国企业的美国人发出警告，它在提交国会的一份报告中说，“一个重大风险是，VIE的中国股东会无视它所依据的法律安排，从这个实体中盗取利益。”）
Mr. Ma often had the final say in strategy. Just as Alibaba was beginning to earn money in 2002, Mr. Ma proposed setting up a consumer-oriented site to compete with eBay. Most of his top executives opposed the idea, since eBay was a formidable company and its Chinese partner already had a huge share of the China market.
马云经常在战略中拥有最终发言权。正如阿里巴巴在2002年刚开始挣钱时，马云提出了设立一个以消费者为受众的网站，与eBay开展竞争。公司高层管理人员大多反对这个想法，因为eBay实力雄厚，其中国合作伙伴当时已在中国拥有了巨大的市场份额。
“Most managers were against it,” says John Wu, who was then the chief technology officer at Alibaba. “I said: ‘We’re barely breaking even. And besides, every business school textbook says focus on what you do best. How can we create a second site?' ”
“大多数管理者当时都表示了反对。”当时在阿里巴巴任首席技术官的吴炯说：“我说，‘我们才刚刚实现盈亏平衡。而且每所商业学校的教科书都说，要全神贯注在你最擅长的业务上。我们怎能再建第二个站点呢？’”
Savio Kwan, who was then Alibaba’s president, remembers a fierce debate one evening at a restaurant in Hangzhou. After Mr. Ma prevailed, he telephoned Mr. Son of SoftBank.
当时担任阿里巴巴总裁的关明生(Savio Kwan)记得有一天晚上他们在杭州的一家餐厅进行了激烈的讨论。马云获胜后给软银主席孙正义打了电话。
“He said: “Masa, we’re thinking of doing this. We’re going to let you know, but we’re going to do it with or without you,' ” Mr. Kwan recalls. “Masa called back in five minutes and said, ‘I want in.’ ”
“他说：正义，我们在考虑做这件事。我们想让你知道，但无论你参不参与，我们都会这么做。’”关明生回忆称。“正义五分钟后回了电话，说，‘我想加入。’”
With financing from SoftBank, Alibaba set up a secret task force to develop the consumer site, which they called Taobao, Chinese for “searching for treasure.” When it was introduced in July 2003, Alibaba used it to wage guerrilla warfare on eBay and its Chinese partner, EachNet. EachNet was more of an auction site and took a commission. Taobao allowed more direct selling and was initially free.
有了软银的资金支持，阿里巴巴设立了一个秘密工作小组，开发消费者网站，他们称之为“淘宝”。阿里巴巴于2003年7月推出淘宝网，利用该网站向eBay及其中方合作伙伴易趣网(Eachnet)发起游击战。易趣网更多的是一个拍卖网站，通过提取佣金获利。淘宝网则允许更为直接的销售活动，而且最初是免费的。
When Mr. Ma vowed that it would remain free for years, eBay shot back in a release, “Free is not a business model.” (Taobao now makes money through fees.)
当马云发誓称淘宝网在几年内都会保持免费时，eBay发表声明予以反击称，“免费不是一种商业模式。”（淘宝现在通过收费获利。）
Mr. Ma predicted that eBay’s China operation would soon collapse because of pressure to deliver quick profit. He was right.
马云预测，eBay在中国的运营很快就会崩溃，因为他们面临快速获利的压力。马云说对了。
In China, “eBay really underestimated Jack’s tenacity and Alibaba’s ability to follow through on a strategy,” says Duncan Clark, founder of BDA China, a Beijing-based consulting firm.
北京博达克咨询有限公司(BDA China)创始人邓肯·克拉克(Duncan Clark)说，在中国，“eBay确实低估了马云的韧性，以及阿里巴巴落实策略的能力。”
With Taobao growing quickly, eBay moved to make a deal, according to people involved in the discussions. In mid-2005, Ms. Whitman held secret talks with Mr. Ma in China to discuss cooperating with Alibaba, or buying Taobao outright. Mr. Ma was invited to eBay’s campus in San Jose, Calif.
据参与讨论者透露，在淘宝快速崛起之后，eBay尝试与淘宝达成协议。2005年年中，惠特曼与马云在中国举行秘密会谈，讨论与阿里巴巴合作，或收购淘宝的事宜。马云获邀访问eBay位于加利福尼亚州圣何塞的总部园区。
But Mr. Ma wanted to maintain control and opened talks with Jerry Yang, a co-founder of Yahoo, who was searching for new opportunities in China, according to people involved in the negotiations. The deal was a good fit. Mr. Ma received a $1 billion cash infusion to buy out some shareholders and invest. He also had a collection of sites like Yahoo China that he thought would transform Alibaba into a powerhouse.
但据参与谈判的人透露，马云希望维持控制权，并与雅虎联合创始人杨致远(Jerry Yang)进行了磋商，后者当时正在寻找来自中国的新机会。两人可谓一拍即合。马云获得了10亿美元的资金，用以买断一些股东的股份和投资。他还拥有了雅虎中国(Yahoo China)等一系列网站，他希望通过这些网站将阿里巴巴转变成一股强大的力量。
At the 2005 news conference in the China World Hotel, Yahoo’s chief operating officer, Daniel Rosensweig, leaned over and whispered in Mr. Ma’s ear. “Jerry Yang had warned me that whatever you do, don’t let Jack Ma say he acquired Yahoo,” recalled Mr. Rosensweig. Mr. Ma leaned back and laughed heartily.
在2005年中国大饭店的新闻发布会上，雅虎首席运营官丹尼尔·罗森格(Daniel Rosensweig)倾身在马云耳边低语。罗森格回忆自己说道，“杨致远曾提醒我，无论我做什么，都不要让马云说他收购了雅虎。”马云当时身子后倾，放声大笑。
Consolidating Power 
巩固势力
The honeymoon didn’t last long.
这种和谐关系没有维持很长时间。
After Mr. Yang resigned as chief executive in January 2009, Yahoo’s new management team clashed with Alibaba’s top executives. Yahoo made an Internet search and advertising deal with Microsoft later that year, and stopped providing the technical support to Alibaba that was required under its partnership agreement. It also began competing with Alibaba for advertising in China.
在杨致远于2009年1月辞去首席执行官的职务后，雅虎的新管理团队与阿里巴巴的高层产生了冲突。雅虎在当年晚些时候与微软(Microsoft)达成了网络搜索及广告交易，并停止为阿里巴巴提供技术支持，没有根据合作协议的规定行事。雅虎还开始与阿里巴巴争夺中国地区的广告业务。
More important, Yahoo rebuffed Alibaba’s request to buy back shares.
更重要的是，雅虎断然拒绝了阿里巴巴提出的回购股份的要求。
“After Jerry Yang left, everything changed,” said David Wei, who until 2011 was one of Alibaba’s top executives. “We had become their most valuable asset and there was no communication.”
“杨致远离开后，一切都变了，”阿里巴巴前高管卫哲说。“我们已经成为他们最具价值的资产，双方却没有交流。”卫哲直到2011年还是阿里巴巴的顶层高管之一。
The simmering resentments boiled over. Between mid-2009 and early 2011, Mr. Ma transferred ownership of his company’s online payment service, Alipay, to a private company he controlled, effectively removing it from the Alibaba Group.
慢慢发酵的愤怒情绪最终失控。从2009年年中到2011年年初，马云将阿里巴巴在线支付服务支付宝的所有权转让给他所控制的一家公司，成功地将支付宝从阿里巴巴集团中分离出去。
The unilateral move angered Yahoo, which said it was done without board approval. Yahoo also said it had only been informed of the transfer in March 2011, when its accountant had received a letter from Alibaba simply saying the payment service had been “deconsolidated.”
这一单方面的举措激怒了雅虎，雅虎称该交易是在没有获得董事会批准的情况下完成的。雅虎还表示，该公司在2011年3月才得知相关消息，当时公司财务部门收到了阿里巴巴的一封信，信中只是称支付宝已经“被分离出去”。
Mr. Ma later said that he had informed the board. But when the directors had failed to decide, Mr. Ma said he was forced to transfer ownership of the company to comply with new regulations on online payment services.
马云后来表示，他告知了董事会相关事宜。但马云称各位董事未能做出决定，而他则是被迫转移了支付宝的所有权，以遵守有关在线支付服务的新规定。
“If Alipay were illegal and didn’t get a license, Taobao would have been paralyzed,” Mr. Ma told the media in 2011.
马云在2011年接受媒体采访时表示，“如果支付宝没有拿到牌照，就会变成非法机构，淘宝就瘫痪掉了。”
After intense negotiations, Yahoo, SoftBank and Alibaba hashed out an agreement, one that seemed to favor Mr. Ma. Yahoo and SoftBank — which between them owned 70 percent of the Alibaba Group — would receive 49 percent of the profit from Alipay. Mr. Ma and a group of unnamed employees would get the rest.
在激烈的谈判后，雅虎、软银和阿里巴巴达成协议，该协议似乎对马云有利。持有阿里巴巴70%股份的雅虎和软银将获得支付宝49%的收益。剩下的归马云和一些未具名的员工所有。
As part of the deal, Mr. Ma also won control over a holding company for the financial services affiliates, including Alipay, the main payment processor for Alibaba’s various sites. The holding company, now known as the Zhejiang Small and Micro Financial Services Company, has expanded to include wealth management products, small-business lending and China’s biggest money market fund. With its ability to profit from Alibaba’s customers, the group is worth an estimated $25 billion, according to analysts.
作为协议的一部分，马云还获得了对一家控股公司的控制权，该公司拥有支付宝等金融服务类子公司。支付宝是阿里巴巴各个网站主要的支付平台。这家控股公司——浙江小微金融服务集团的业务已经扩展至理财产品、小型企业借贷，并成为了中国最大的货币市场基金。据分析人士透露，该集团能够通过阿里巴巴的顾客获利，现在价值约为250亿美元。
“He’s essentially formed a huge company within the company that’s tied into absolutely everything that Alibaba does,” says Fredrik Oqvist, an independent financial analyst in Beijing.
北京的独立金融分析师弗雷德里克·奥奎斯特(Fredrik Öqvist)说，“他基本上是在公司内部成立了一个超大公司，该公司几乎与阿里巴巴的所有业务都有关联。”
Around the same time, Mr. Ma started aggressively making deals with a small circle of businessmen with whom he socialized. The group includes some of China’s most successful entrepreneurs, like Guo Guangchang of the Fosun Group, a Shanghai-based conglomerate; Shen Guojun of China Yintai Holdings, a retail property developer; and Shi Yuzhu, chairman of the online gaming company Giant Interactive.
大约在同一时间，马云开始与他所结交的少数几个商人积极开展交易。这个群体包括一些中国最成功的企业家，比如上海复兴集团的郭广昌、零售地产开发商中国银泰投资有限公司的沈国军，以及在线游戏公司巨人网络的董事长史玉柱。
Together, they have worked on a web of interconnected deals, both for personal benefit and for corporate profit.
他们携手打造了相互交错的交易网，为个人和公司获取利益。
The business group, known as the Zhejiang Gang because many of the members grew up in Zhejiang Province, helped Mr. Ma set up his private equity firm, Yunfeng Capital, in 2010. That private equity firm has since been a conduit for other Alibaba-related deals. For example, Giant Interactive, run by Mr. Shi, bought $50 million worth of Alibaba stock through Yunfeng Capital, according to public filings. Less than three years later, the shares were sold for $200 million.
这个商业群体被称为“浙江帮”，因为很多成员是在浙江省发家的，2010年它帮助马云创设了私募机构云峰基金。这个基金从此成为其他阿里巴巴相关交易的通道。比如通过公开申报文件可知，史玉柱经营的巨人网络通过云峰基金购入了价值5000万美元的阿里巴巴股份。不到三年后以2亿美元出手。
The businessmen have also formed joint ventures together. Last year, Alibaba started a company called Cainiao with plans to spend $16 billion to build out China’s logistics network. Alibaba owns 48 percent. Fosun is an investor. Yintai too. And Mr. Shen of Yintai is Cainiao’s executive chairman.
这些商人还会建立合资企业。去年阿里巴巴创办了一家名为“菜鸟”的公司，计划斥资160亿美元打造中国的物流网络。阿里巴巴持股48%。其他的投资人包括复星和银泰。银泰的沈国军是菜鸟的执行主席。
Analysts and corporate ethics experts say there is nothing wrong with such activities. But they caution that regulators may look askance if interparty deals aren’t properly disclosed.
分析师和企业伦理专家认为，这样的活动是无可指摘的。但是他们也提醒，如果内部交易没有充分公开，可能会引来监管部门的质疑。
“Why do they allow Yunfeng to get in on it?” says Jeff Dorr, a Hong Kong-based analyst at J Capital Research, an investment advisory firm. “What value do they bring?”
“为什么他们会允许云峰参与进来？”投资顾问公司美奇金(J Capital Research)驻香港分析师杰夫·多尔(Jeff Dorr)说。“能带来什么好处？”
Most members of the group declined to comment. In an interview, Mr. Shen defended such deals, explaining that Mr. Ma had formed a circle of trust, something common in Chinese business. Mr. Shen insisted that the group follows rules regarding conflicts of interest.
这个企业群体的多数成员都拒绝置评。在一次采访中，沈国军为这些交易做了辩护，称马云形成了一个相互信任的圈子，这在中国商界是常见的。沈国平坚称这个群体会遵循利益冲突的规则行事。
“Public companies have very strict supervision regulations that we have to comply with,” Mr. Shen says. “We just cooperate.”
“上市公司是要接受很严格的监督管理的，我们必须服从，”沈国平说。“我们只会进行协助。”
The playbook, with its web of interrelated players and companies, extends more broadly to Alibaba’s aggressive deal-making. In the last year, Alibaba has made acquisitions valued at more than $6 billion, everything from navigation systems and online video sites to a professional soccer team.
有了这样一张运作者和公司紧密联系的网络，阿里巴巴极具侵略性的交易行动得以进一步扩大范围。去年阿里巴巴的收购案总价值超过60亿美元，收购对象从导航系统、在线视频站到一支职业足球队，无所不包。
The deal structures can be complex. For example, Alibaba said in April that it agreed to lend about $1 billion to Mr. Xie, one of Alibaba’s co-founders and a top executive, to acquire 20 percent of Wasu Media, an Internet TV company. Mr. Ma and Mr. Shi of Giant Interactive were partners in the deal. The same day Alibaba announced it planned to cooperate with Wasu.
交易的结构可能会很复杂。比如阿里巴巴在四月称已经同意向公司创始人兼高管谢世煌提供10亿美元借款，用于收购互联网电视公司华数传媒20%的股份。马云和史玉柱的巨人网络是该交易的合伙人。在同一天，阿里巴巴宣布了与华数合作的计划。
The fast pace of deal-making also makes it more difficult to assess a company properly. This year, Alibaba acquired ChinaVision, a film producer that has since changed its name to Alibaba Pictures. Just weeks ago, Alibaba said it had discovered suspicious accounting at the company.
这种快节奏的交易也让人们更加难以对公司进行合理评估。今年阿里巴巴收购了电影制片公司文化中国传播集团，公司随后更名为阿里巴巴影业。就在几周前，阿里巴巴称，发现该公司存在可疑账目。