American anti-Semitism, which was running high throughout the 1930s, steadily increased after the onset of war. During the entire period, polls showed, well over a third of the populace stood ready to back discriminatory laws. Nor was this a mere offshoot of the general xenophobia spawned by isolationism. Every synagogue in Washington Heights was desecrated (and some were smeared with swastikas); in Boston, beatings, wreckings and defilements had become near-daily occurrences by 1942. The disgraceful fever, which ruled out all but a trickle of immigration and so cost countless lives, reached its historic apogee in 1944 — by which time the Holocaust was more or less complete.
美国的反犹太主义在整个20世纪30年代十分高涨，随着“二战”的开始愈演愈烈。在这期间的民意调查显示，超过三分之一的民众随时准备支持歧视犹太人的法律。这不仅仅是孤立主义引发的普通排外心理。华盛顿高地的每个犹太教会堂都遭到亵渎（有的被涂上了纳粹十字记号）；在波士顿，到1942年，几乎每天都发生殴打、破坏和侮辱事件。这种可耻的狂热在1944年达到顶点，那时候纳粹大屠杀已经接近尾声。只有一小部分犹太人获准移民美国，无数犹太人因此丧生。
And what of the media? News of the killings emerged in May/June 1942: a verified report with a figure of 700,000 already dead. The Boston Globe gave the story the three-column headline “Mass Murders of Jews in Poland Pass 700,000 Mark,” and tucked it away at the foot of Page 12. The New York Times quoted the report’s verdict — “probably the greatest mass slaughter in history” — but gave it only two inches. We may venture to say that such reticence is slightly surprising, given that the historiography of the events outlined above now runs to many tens of thousands of volumes.
那媒体是什么反应呢？1942年5、6月份，报纸上开始出现屠杀的新闻：经核实的报道称已有70万人被杀。《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)用三个纵栏来报道这个故事，标题是“波兰的犹太人大屠杀超过了70万人”，藏在了第12版的最下面。《纽约时报》引用了这个报道的结论——“很可能是史上最大规模的屠杀”，但是只用了两英寸的长度来报道它。我们可以说，这样的沉默有点让人震惊，要知道，关于上面提到的这些事件的历史学著作已有上万册。
Philip Roth would use this soiled and feckless backdrop in “The Plot Against America” (2004), his 26th book; but ­anti-Semitism and its corollary, anti-anti-­Semitism, wholly dominated the publication of his first, “Goodbye, Columbus and Five Short Stories” (1959). “What is being done to silence this man?” asked a rabbi. “Medieval Jews would have known what to do with him.” Roth’s cheerful debut, some thought, shored up the same “conceptions . . . as ultimately led to the murder of six million in our time.” So he wasn’t only contending with a “rational” paranoia; he was also ensnared in the ongoing anguish of comprehension and absorption, as the sheer size of the trauma inched into consciousness. After a hate-filled public meeting at Yeshiva University in New York in 1962, Roth solemnly swore (over a pastrami sandwich) that he would “never write about Jews again.”
菲利普·罗斯(Philip Roth)的第26本书《反美阴谋》(The Plot Against America, 2004)就是设置在这样一个肮脏、软弱的背景中。但是反犹太主义以及它的必然结果——反反犹太主义完全主导了他的第一本书《再见，哥伦布》(Goodbye, Columbus and Five Short Stories, 1959)。“为了让这个男人保持沉默你在做什么？”一个拉比问道，“中世纪的犹太人知道该怎么对待他。”有人认为，罗斯这快乐的开场白，支持同样的“理念……最终导致我们这个时代有600万人被杀”。所以他不只是在与“理性的”偏执狂作斗争，还深陷关乎理解与同化的持续痛苦之中，创伤慢慢渗入了意识。1962年在纽约叶史瓦大学的一次充满仇恨的公共集会之后，罗斯（对着一个熏牛肉三明治）郑重宣布，他“再也不写关于犹太人的书了”。
It was a hollow vow. But Roth, remember, was still in his 20s; and one of the snags of starting young is that you’re obliged to do your growing up in public. He was a proud American, as well as a Jew; a robustly bloody-minded talent, such as his, would have known at once that fiction insists on freedom: indeed, fiction is freedom, and freedom is indivisible (hence, later on, his passionate support for the writers of Czechoslovakia). Still, it could be argued that with one thing or another Roth took about 15 years to settle into his voice. The later career was conventional; the early career was wildly eccentric — a mysterious and fascinating flail.
这是个空洞的誓言。要知道，罗斯当时才20多岁。年轻成名的一个大问题就是，你的成长过程都在公众的注视之下。他是犹太人，同时也是个骄傲的美国人。像他这样刚愎自用的天才应该很快就明白，小说要求自由：实际上，小说就是自由，自由和小说是分不开的（因此，他后来热情地支持捷克斯洛伐克的作家）。不过，可以说罗斯花了大约15年时间厘清自己的声音。他晚期的写作中规中矩；而早期的写作则非常古怪——如同神秘而迷人的重击。
Claudia Roth Pierpont (no relation), in her lively and clever monograph, says that Roth’s first full-length novel, “Letting Go” (1962), is “about not letting go”: not letting go of responsibility, obligation and a general crew-necked earnestness; and, importantly, not letting go of Henry James. Here, the large cast is pluralist; but ethnic anxieties seemed to linger. So what next? Well, at this point Roth put aside a book called “Jewboy,” and after “years of misery” (five of them), produced “When She Was Good,” a straight-faced, all-goy saga set in a prim and mannerly Midwestern town. And here we were given our first real glimpse of the succubus that was eating his soul.
克劳迪娅·罗斯·皮尔庞特（Claudia Roth Pierpont，她和罗斯没有血缘关系）在她生动而巧妙的专著中说，罗斯的第一部长篇小说《放弃》(Letting Go, 1962)说的是“不放弃”：不放弃责任、义务和坦荡的真诚。更重要的是，不放弃亨利·詹姆斯(Henry James)。这本书的主要论调是多元论，但是似乎仍弥漫着种族焦虑。那下一本书写什么呢？这时候，罗斯撇开一本叫《犹太男孩》(Jewboy)的书，在“多年的痛苦”（五年）之后，出版了《她是好女人的时候》(When She Was Good)，它是一部严肃的传奇，里面的人物都不是犹太人，故事发生在一个古板的、讲究礼仪的中西部小镇。在这部小说中，我们第一次真正瞥见了那个正在吞噬他灵魂的魔鬼。
I remember thinking at the time that there was something extreme and frighteningly inordinate about the heroine, Lucy Nelson (she is adhesive, devouring and remorseless); I remember thinking, too, that she was only a part of an untold story. It is a profound portrait — flaringly alive in a book that often struggles for breath. Critics said that “When She Was Good” could have been written by a woman, others that it could have been written by a WASP (Sherwood Anderson, perhaps). Still, what the reader was looking for, around then, was a novel that could only have been written by Philip Roth.
我记得当时我认为女主人公露西·纳尔森（Lucy Nelson，她难以摆脱，具有毁灭性，冷酷无情）有点极端，觉得她过分得令人恐惧。我还记得当时我认为她只是一个未说出的故事的一部分。那本书对她进行了深刻的描绘——在这样一本情节紧张的书中，对她的描绘还是十分生动的。有些批评家说《她是好女人的时候》本该出自一个女人之手，另外一些批评家说它也可以出自一个盎格鲁撒克逊白人新教徒之手（比如舍伍德·安德森[Sherwood Anderson]）。不过，当时读者们期待的是一本只有菲利普·罗斯才能写出来的小说。
That novel was “Portnoy’s Complaint” (1969) — a time bomb of cawing, stinging comedy (it is even typographically explosive, setting the aggregate record, in mainstream fiction, for exclamation marks, block caps and italics). Here the tensions and conflicts of the Jewish-American experience are reduced to their core: shiksas. The word’s Yiddish root means “detested thing”; by matrilineal logic, male goys are tolerable, but shiksas spell assimilation and are therefore forbidden. Forbidden, detested — and all the more hotly desired. Roth attacked this crux with incomparable energy; and it seemed that a turbulent and directionless talent had finally found perfect pitch.
人们期待的是像《波特诺伊的怨诉》(Portnoy’s Complaint, 1969)这样的小说。它是一部聒噪、刺人的喜剧（该小说在印刷排版方面也是爆炸性的，感叹号、黑体字和斜体字多得惊人，打破了主流小说领域的纪录）。在这本书中，犹太裔美国人的压力和矛盾被压缩为一个核心问题：拐跑了犹太男人的外族姑娘。这个单词在意地绪语中的词源是“被厌恶的东西”；按照母系社会的逻辑，和男性异教徒通婚是可以容忍的，但是拐跑了犹太男人的外族姑娘则意味着外族的同化，因此是被禁止的——被禁止、被厌恶，因此更让人渴望拥有。罗斯用无与伦比的力量抨击了这个难题，仿佛他狂乱、没有方向的天分最终找到了完美的释放。
Now the story becomes passing strange. “Portnoy,” readers assumed, was Roth’s letting go. But it turned out there was something else, and something quite intrinsic, to be let go of. Having ceased to care about that thing called “good taste” (in fact a shallow consensus of the bien pensant), Roth, dismayingly, ceased to care about literary value. “Our Gang,” written in “a mere three months,” is a grimly unfunny satire of the Nixon administration (“Trick E. Dixon”?); “The Breast,” written in “a few weeks,” transforms its hero into a giant mammary gland (an abnormally unpromising donnée); and “The Great American Novel,” 382 pages about baseball, is a hobbyist’s exercise in virtuoso facetiousness. It was, you might say, remarkably bold: in tight succession, 1971, 1972, 1973, Roth — clearly something of a genius — pulled off three unqualified duds.
现在这个故事变得非常陌生。读者们认为，《波特诺伊的怨诉》是罗斯的放弃。但是结果证明，罗斯放弃的是别的东西——一种更加本质性的东西。罗斯先是不再关心所谓的“好品味”（它实际上与“善于思考”具有表面上的一致），而后令人沮丧地不再关心文学价值。“仅用三个月就写好的”《我们这一帮》(Our Gang)是对尼克松政府（“E·迪克松[E. Dixon]骗局”）的冷酷的、不好笑的讽刺；“几周”就写好的《乳房》(The Breast)里的主人公被变成了一个巨大的乳腺（一个异常绝望的主题）；《伟大的美国小说》(The Great American Novel)用382页讲述棒球，在行家里手看来像是业余爱好者的习作。你可能会说，这么做真是大胆：罗斯——他明显是某种天才——在1971年、1972年和1973年接连脱下了三件不合适的衣服。
The lurid light surrounding Lucy Nelson, the five-year hiatus, the sense of an unaired wound, the mad cackle of “Portnoy,” the revolt against high seriousness and the embrace of frivolity: now the answers started coming in with “My Life as a Man” (1974). This tells the tale of Roth’s “horrific” first marriage and its aftermath, a relationship that began in 1956 and ended only with an accidental death in 1968. It is a novel you read between the fingers of the hand you keep raising to your face. The central puzzle is that Roth evidently colluded in his own entrapment; and the explanation, as his proxy, Peter Tarnopol, puts it, is that “literature got me into this.” The attraction to difficulty, to complexity, even to agony is real enough in an intensely bookish young man. There are numerous instances of writers who hunt down the most fantastic entanglements; they make misery their muse, or they try.
围绕露西·纳尔森（用五年塑造出的那个人物）的可怕光芒，密不透风的伤口，波特诺伊的疯狂倾诉，对高度严肃的反感，对轻浮的欢迎……这一切何以出现？现在答案开始随着《我作为男人的一生》(My Life as a Man, 1974)显现出来。它讲述了罗斯“可怕的”第一次婚姻及它的余波。这段婚姻始于1956年，1968年因妻子的意外死亡而结束。读这本小说的时候，你常常害怕得用手捂着脸，透过指缝去读。最大的谜题在于罗斯显然营造了圈套，让自己深陷进去。他通过自己在小说中的代言人彼得·塔诺波尔(Peter Tarnopol)解释说，“是文学让我陷入其中”。对困难、复杂、甚至痛苦的迷恋，在这个书卷气十足的年轻男人身上显得足够真实。这样的例子数不胜数，有很多作家追逐最不可思议的纠葛，把痛苦当作灵感来源，或者他们极力如此。
Roth had found his subject, which is to say he had found himself. And the self, seen through an intricate mesh of personae, doppelgängers and noms de guerre, would provide the framework (with a couple of exceptions) for his remaining 19 novels. John Updike once argued that although fiction can withstand any amount of egocentricity, it is wholly allergic to narcissism. There is no narcissism in Roth; the creature in the mirror is given merciless and unblinking scrutiny. Updike again: “Who cares what it’s like to be a writer?” The short answer is, We care, for all sorts of reasons, when that writer is Jewish. (Jewish-American literature is above all new: it began with Saul Bellow, circa 1950.) And Updike appeared to concede the point when he created Henry Bech, giving his Jewish writer three full-length excursions (and wistfully awarding him the Nobel Prize).
罗斯找到了他的主题，也就是说他找到了自己。通过人物、幽灵和假名构成的复杂的网，这个自我将为他剩下的19本小说（只有两三本例外）提供一个框架。约翰·厄普代克(John Updike)曾说过，虽然小说能容忍任何程度的以自我为中心，但它十分反感自恋。罗斯一点儿也不自恋。镜子中的那个动物被无情、严格地审视。厄普代克还说：“谁关心作家的感受？”答案是，出于各种原因，如果那个作家是犹太人，那我们就关心（美国犹太文学毕竟是个新鲜事物：大约在1950年始于索尔·贝娄[Saul Bellow]）。厄普代克在创作亨利·贝克(Henry Bech)这个人物时似乎也承认了这一点，他用三本书来描写这个犹太作家（还惆怅地让这个人物获得了诺贝尔奖）。
“Portnoy” was described in Haaretz as “the book for which all anti-Semites have been praying,” more toxic even than “The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.” Over the years the animosity of Jewry has slackened — to be replaced by the coordinated or at any rate choric animosity of feminism. Pierpont conscientiously deals with these objections as and when they arise, rightly pointing out that Roth’s women cover a very broad range. But I think the charge of misogyny, etc., is just a straightforward category error. As with the rabbinical critique, there is some historical justification, but both are sociopolitical, not literary; they are in fact anti-literary. Besides, isn’t women’s fiction crammed with male louts and rats? Isn’t men’s? The right-on heroine (a violin-playing, corporation-running mother of five, say, with an enlightened husband and a virile young lover called Raoul) is of no conceivable interest to any genuine writer; besides, she is well-represented in any number of admiring narratives — and you can get them at the airport.
《波特诺伊的怨诉》被《国土报》(Haaretz)描述为“所有反犹太人的人一直祈祷出现的一本书”，说它比《犹太人的阴谋》(The Protocols of the Elders of Zion)更有害。随着岁月流逝，罗斯书中对犹太人的敌意慢慢减少，取而代之的是对女权主义的综合敌意，至少是合唱般的敌意。皮尔庞特认真对待这些对罗斯的异议，公正地指出，罗斯笔下的女人覆盖面很广。但是我认为，说他有厌女症之类的指责只是一个简单的分类错误。和《国土报》的那篇关于犹太人的批评文章一样，历史自有公断。但是两者都是从社会政治角度进行评判，而不是从文学角度，实际上它们是反文学的。另外，女性小说中不是充满了对男人的嘲弄和鄙视吗？男性小说不也是如此吗？任何真正的作家都没有兴趣创作一个完美的女主人公（拉小提琴，经营公司，有5个孩子，有个开明的丈夫和一个名叫拉乌尔的年富力强的情人）。况且，她已经出现在很多赞美故事中了——你在机场能看到很多这样的书。
“Roth Unbound” is an authorized critical biography of the old school, though one invaluably topped up with reported comments and judgments from the Philip Roth of today. Eighty years old, and “done” with writing (or so he says), he comes across as droll, sagacious, securely self-deprecating (of the early books and the early marriage), relaxed, high-spirited and warm. By the end one consents to the verdict of the Roth impersonator in “Operation Shylock,” who says to the “real” Roth:
《摆脱束缚的罗斯》(Roth Unbound)是一部经作者授权的老式的评论性传记，不过十分可贵的是，书中有很多如今的菲利普·罗斯对媒体说的一些评论和评判。他已经80岁了，不再写作了（他是这么说的），给人的感觉是有趣、睿智、（对早期的作品和婚姻）自谦、放松、振奋、温暖。最后，人们会同意《夏洛克行动》(Operation Shylock)中的罗斯对“现实生活中”的罗斯做出的评判：
“But your eyes melt a little too, you know. I know the things you’ve done for people. You hide your sweet side from the public — all the glowering photographs and I’m-nobody’s-sucker interviews. But behind the scenes, as I happen to know, you’re one very soft touch, Mr. Roth.”
“但是你知道，连你的眼神也柔和了一点。我知道你为人们做的事情。在公众面前，你把自己美好的一面藏了起来——拍照的时候怒目以视，接受采访的时候宣称谁也别想骗我。但是在私下里，我碰巧知道，罗斯先生，你是个非常温和的人。”
The corpus, it seems, is now complete. Roth tends to divide opinion — because high originality is, and should be, fairly tough to digest. Apart from “Portnoy” and the balefully powerful “My Life as a Man,” there are, by my count, three further magna opera. I am thinking of the lapidary burnish of “The Ghost Writer,” the daunting intellectual rigor of “The Counterlife” and the lush Victorian amplitude of “American Pastoral.” And, throughout, there are certain motifs that unfailingly ignite Roth’s eloquence: Israel; aging and mortality; sickness and suffering; this whole business with parents; and, most surprisingly, this whole business with children.
现在这个文集似乎完整了。罗斯的观点经常自相对立，因为具有高度原创性的作品通常，也应该，很难理解。我认为，除了《波特诺伊的怨诉》和强有力的《我作为男人的一生》之外，还有三部更宏大的戏剧。我说的是《鬼作家》(The Ghost Writer)宝石般的光芒，《反生活》(The Counterlife)中令人望而却步的对智力的严格要求以及《美国牧歌》(American Pastoral)中维多利亚时代的奢华富足。从头到尾，有几个主题在不断激发罗斯的文采：以色列；衰老和死亡；疾病和折磨；和父母之间的复杂感情；最令人吃惊的是，和孩子们之间的复杂感情。
In “Sabbath’s Theater,” the rebarbative hero is shamefaced about having once had a wife, and consoles himself with the thought that at least he never had a child — he’s not that stupid. Novelists don’t always need to try things out for themselves (and believing otherwise brought him his “Lucy Nelson,” and 12 blighted years). Here we see the routine and elementary miracle of fiction. Look at Swede Levov and Merry in “American Pastoral.” You can write beautifully about children without having had any; you simply apply to the surrogate mother of the imagination.
在《安息日的剧院》(Sabbath’s Theater)中，那个讨厌的男主人公为自己曾经有个妻子而感到难为情，安慰自己说，还好他从来没有孩子——他还没傻到那种地步。小说家不需要凡事亲自尝试（他们认为，否则自己也会有个“幸运的尼尔森”和被毁掉的12年）。在这里我们看到了小说最常见和最基本的奇迹。看看《美国牧歌》中的瑞典人普莱沃和梅里你就知道了。他从来没有孩子，却可以把孩子描绘得很美好——只要把想象当做代孕母亲就行了。