Yuri Milner, the Russian entrepreneur and investor, attracted some of Silicon Valley’s biggest names to join him in starting a life sciences prize this year. Now, he has wooed a titan from China: Jack Ma.
俄罗斯企业家、投资人尤里·米尔纳(Yuri Milner)吸引了硅谷一些最著名的人士与自己携手合作，于今年创设一个生命科学奖项。如今，他还争取到了一位中国巨头的支持，这位巨头就是马云。
Mr. Ma, the executive chairman of the Internet giant Alibaba, and his wife, Cathy Zhang, have agreed to become sponsors of the prize, which is the world’s richest for medicine and biology, the group is expected to announce on Friday. Mr. Ma is also joining the board of the foundation that administers the prize, called the Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences.
互联网巨头阿里巴巴的首席执行官马云和他的妻子张瑛已同意成为该奖项的捐助人，该奖是目前全球奖额最高的医药和生物奖项。预计阿里巴巴集团将于周五宣布相关消息。奖项名为生命科学突破奖(Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences)，马云将会加入管理该奖的基金董事会。
Flush with Internet money, the foundation offers $3 million awards to scientists, more than twice as much as the Nobel Prize. Mr. Ma’s contribution brings the number of annual prizes to six from five.
该奖从互联网公司获得了大量资金，将为科学家提供300万美元（约合1836万元人民币）的奖金，相当于诺贝尔奖的两倍还多。马云的捐赠使年度奖项由五项增加到了六项。
Mr. Milner, who studied physics before earning a fortune investing in companies like Facebook, said the addition of Mr. Ma underscored the global nature of the prize. Though most of the recipients this year were American, the prize is open to submissions from around the world.
米尔纳研究过物理学，后来又通过向Facebook等公司投资发了财。他说，马云的加入突显了该奖的国际性。尽管今年的大部分获奖者都是美国人，但该奖是向全球申请者开放的。
“Scientists are not making anywhere near what they should be making given the significance of what they’re doing,” Mr. Milner said in an interview. “In the last 50 years, we have evolved from a world where Einstein was the biggest celebrity to a world where the most famous scientist is not in the top few hundred celebrities in the world.”
“从科学家工作的重要性来看，他们远没有获得应有的肯定，”米尔纳在采访中说。“过去50年间，我们已经从一个以爱因斯坦(Einstein)为头号名人的世界，走进了一个连最著名科学家都不能进入全球名人前几百位的世界。”
A celebrity in his own right, Mr. Ma is joining a group of prominent technology moguls at the foundation. In addition to Mr. Milner, the sponsors of the prize include Sergey Brin, a co-founder of Google; Anne Wojcicki, a co-founder of the genetics company 23andMe who is Mr. Brin’s wife; Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook; and Priscilla Chan, Mr. Zuckerberg’s wife. Arthur D. Levinson, the chairman of Apple, is the foundation’s chairman.
加入基金会之后，本身就是名人的马云将与一群著名科技巨头为伍。除米尔纳以外，该奖的赞助人还包括谷歌(Google)联合创始人谢尔盖·布林(Sergey Brin)、布林的妻子、遗传学公司23andMe的联合创始人安妮·沃奇基(Anne Wojcicki)、Facebook的首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)，以及扎克伯格的妻子普莉希拉·陈(Priscilla Chan)。基金会主席是苹果(Apple)董事长亚瑟·D·莱文森(Arthur D. Levinson)。
Mr. Ma, a former English teacher from Hangzhou, founded Alibaba in 1999 as a platform for businesses to trade products like circuit breakers and hydraulic cylinders. Now a giant in online commerce, the company is moving toward an initial public offering that could value it at more than $75 billion.
马云曾在杭州教英语，于1999年创立阿里巴巴，以此作为断路器和液压缸等产品的企业交易平台。如今，阿里巴巴已经成为在线商务的巨头，正在推进首次公开募股的计划，这次上市可能会将该公司的估值定在750亿美元（4589亿元人民币）以上。
One of the beneficiaries of the I.P.O. will most likely be Mr. Milner, whose firm, DST Global, invested in Alibaba in 2011. But Mr. Milner first met Mr. Ma several years before that, he said, on a trip to China to learn more about the country’s technology industry.
米尔纳是最有可能因阿里巴巴首次公开募股而受益的人之一，因为他的公司DST全球(DST Global)于2011年对阿里巴巴进行了投资。但米尔纳表示，他与马云的第一次见面是在几年之前，当时他来中国了解该国的技术行业。
“It is my honor to be able to contribute to innovation in the field of medical research,” Mr. Ma said in a statement. “I hope that this can one day help make a difference in the lives of many.”
“能为医学研究领域的创新带来帮助，我觉得很荣幸，”马云在一份声明中说。“我希望有一天，这能给很多人的生命带来改变。”
The life sciences foundation awarded its prizes this year to 11 scientists, many of whom had done work in the genetics of cell growth and how it can produce cancer. The foundation says it rewards research aimed at finding cures for serious diseases, with one prize reserved for work on Parkinson’s disease.
今年，生命科学基金会为11名科学家颁发了奖项，其中很多人都曾研究细胞生长及细胞生长如何导致癌症的遗传学问题。该基金会表示，基金会奖励那些致力寻找严重疾病的治疗方法的研究人员，奖项之一专门针对帕金森氏征研究工作。
The period for submitting online nominations for next year’s prize began this month and continues through Oct. 2. Anyone can submit a nomination on the foundation’s Web site.
在线提交明年奖项提名的时间从本月开始，到10月2日结束。任何人都可以在该基金会的网站上提交提名。
For Mr. Milner, the prize has a personal dimension. His father died this year after a battle with colon cancer, he said.
对米尔纳来说，这个奖项包含着个人情愫。他曾经表示，他父亲今年与结肠癌作了斗争，但最终死亡。
“There was no technology in the world he could use to get cured,” Mr. Milner said.
米尔纳说，“当时还没有能治愈他的技术。”