It was only two days ago that a Chinese government regulator chastised the Alibaba Group, the e-commerce giant, for failing to curb the sale of fake goods on its sites.
仅仅两天之前，一家中国政府监管机构还在批评电商巨头阿里巴巴集团未能遏制其网站的售假行为。
Now the two appear to have made up in a hurry.
现在，双方似乎匆匆忙忙地进行了和解。
The regulator, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, said on Friday that its leader, Zhang Mao, had met with Alibaba’s executive chairman, Jack Ma, to discuss cooperating to fight counterfeiting and protect consumers.
国家工商行政管理总局周五表示，总局局长张茅会见了阿里巴巴董事局主席马云，讨论了合作打击假货和保护消费者的问题。
The agency made its criticism of Alibaba in a report released on Wednesday. But it is now backing away from the findings of that report, calling it a recounting of a July meeting between the two sides and not an official document with legal weight.
工商总局在周三发布的一篇报告中批评了阿里巴巴。但现在的立场却与报告的结论背道而驰，称这份报告是双方7月的一次会议的会议记录，而非具有法律效力的正式文件。
It is a surprisingly quick turn of events for both Alibaba and the Chinese agency, given the public criticism that the S.A.I.C. delivered to one of its country’s most important Internet players.
对于阿里巴巴和工商总局而言，这个转折都快得令人惊讶，毕竟此前工商总局是对这家中国最重要的互联网公司进行了公开指责。
The Chinese government stayed quiet about the proliferation of fake goods on Alibaba’s marketplaces for several months, particularly in the period leading to the company’s $25 billion stock market debut last fall.
数月以来，中国政府一直对在阿里巴巴网站上泛滥的假货保持沉默，尤其是在公司去年秋天价值250亿美元（约合1540亿元人民币）的IPO前夕。
That was despite longstanding accusations of sales of counterfeit goods — fake wine, knockoff handbags and falsely branded electronics — on Alibaba’s platforms. Only in 2012 did the United States trade representative remove the company’s Taobao online marketplace from a “notorious markets” list of counterfeit goods sellers.
而有关阿里巴巴的平台销售假货——假酒、假名牌包和仿冒电子产品——的指责从来都有。美国贸易代理商直到2012年才从销售假货的“恶名市场”名单中去掉了阿里巴巴的淘宝网。
Alibaba has publicly criticized the phenomenon as a “cancer” and moved to crack down on it. The company said that it spent about $160 million on anticounterfeiting efforts in 2013 and 2014.
阿里巴巴曾公开批判这种现象是“毒瘤”，并采取了打击假货的行动。公司称在2013年和2014年花费了大概1.6亿美元用于打假。
Yet the S.A.I.C. moved forward with a prominent, and harshly worded, paper this week. In it, the regulator bluntly described a host of what it said were failures to halt the sales of counterfeit goods on marketplaces like Taobao and Tmall.com.
但是，工商总局本周还是发布了一份引人注意的、措辞严厉的报告。工商总局在报告中直白地表示，公司未能在淘宝网和天猫上制止售假行为，而且这种情况十分普遍。
That failure to halt the sales of fakes has led Alibaba to face “its biggest credibility crisis since it was founded,” the report said.
由于未能采取措施制止售假行为，阿里巴巴“使自身面临成立以来的最大诚信危机”。
That move brought a strong response from Alibaba, which acknowledged that it had more to do to halt counterfeit sales, but also contended that its regulator had been less than objective.
此举引起了阿里巴巴的强烈反应。阿里巴巴承认，公司还应该采取更多行动来打击假货，但同时也辩称工商总局不够客观。
Officials associated with Taobao in particular accused Liu Hongliang, an official at the agency, of using inappropriate procedures in the investigation, and said Taobao would file a formal complaint.
与淘宝有关的官员特别指责了工商总局官员刘红亮，称其在调查期间程序失当，并表示淘宝将正式提起投诉。
The S.A.I.C.’s blunt tone disappeared in the Friday statement. The agency described Alibaba as “steadfast and resolute” in fighting the sale of counterfeit goods, though it maintained that e-commerce platforms in China still needed to improve their self-policing.
在周五的声明中，工商总局直截了当的语气消失了。它表示阿里巴巴在打击售假方面表现得“坚决而果断”，尽管它也声称，中国的电商平台仍然需要改进自我监管。
Both sides pledged to work more closely on matters like creating new regulatory mechanisms.
双方都承诺会在创建新的管理机制方面开展更紧密的合作。
“Both sides believe that the regulators and online platforms share the common interest to promote the healthy development of the online commerce industry and creating an online shopping environment where consumers feel safe and satisfied,” the regulator said, according to an English-language translation of its statement.
工商总局称，“双方认为，促进电商产业健康发展、营造消费者放心满意的网购环境，是网监部门与电商平台的共同意愿。”