SEPANG, Malaysia — After four days of reticence and evasive answers, the Malaysian military acknowledged on Wednesday that it recorded, but initially ignored, radar signals that could have prompted a mission to intercept and track a missing jetliner — data that vastly expands the area where the plane might have traveled.
马来西亚雪邦——四天的沉默不语和闪烁其词之后，马来西亚军方周三终于承认，他们曾记录到一些雷达信号，一开始却没有予以理会。这些雷达信号本有可能会促使有关方面对一架失踪客机展开拦截和跟踪——相关数据极大地扩展了该飞机可能经过的区域。
Officials said that radar signals from the location where the missing aircraft, Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, was last contacted by ground controllers suggested that the plane may have made a turn away from its northeastward course toward Beijing. Military radar then detected an unidentified aircraft at several points, apparently headed westward across the Malaysian Peninsula and out into the Indian Ocean, the head of the country’s air force told reporters. The last detected location was hundreds of miles to the west of the gulf, where search and rescue efforts were initially focused.
官员表示，失踪的马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)MH370班机最后一次与地面控制人员取得联系时，来自其当时所在位置的雷达信号表明，这架原本向东北飞往北京的飞机或许曾经转向。马来西亚空军首脑告诉记者，随后，军方雷达在几个不同地点侦测到了一架身份不明的飞机，这架飞机似乎在向西飞越马来西亚半岛，飞入印度洋。最后监测到的飞机位置是在泰国湾以西几百英里的地方，这里也是搜索和救援工作最初的集中地。
The military took no immediate action on Saturday to investigate the unidentified blip, whose path appeared to take it near the heavily populated island of Penang, and only later realized the significance of the radar readings. The search area was then expanded to take in waters west of the peninsula as well as east, encompassing almost 27,000 square nautical miles — an area bigger than South Carolina — but officials did not give a full explanation for the expansion.
上周六，军方并没有立即采取行动来调查这个不明光点——光点的路径表明，它最后似乎来到了人口密集的槟榔屿附近。直到后来，军方才意识到这些雷达数据的重要意义。随后，搜索范围扩展到了半岛以西及以东的水域，面积将近2.7万平方海里——比南卡罗莱纳州还大——但官方并没有为扩大搜索范围的做法提供详细解释。
Gen. Rodzali Daud, the air force chief, said that the military was still not certain that the radar had detected the missing jetliner heading west. He declined to offer any other explanation for the coincidence of an unidentified blip suddenly appearing on military radar screens after Flight 370 stopped transmitting its identification signal to civilian ground controllers, 40 minutes into its flight.
马来西亚空军司令罗查理·达乌德上将(Rodzali Daud)说，军方仍然无法确定，雷达是否曾监测到这架失踪的飞机向西飞行。在MH370停止向民航地面控制人员传输识别信号之后，一个不明光点突然出现在了军方的雷达荧幕上，对于这个巧合，他拒绝提供其他解释。当时，飞机已经飞行了40分钟。
“Today we are still not sure that it is the same aircraft,” Hishammuddin Hussein, the country’s defense minister, told reporters. “That is why we are searching in two areas.
“直到今天，我们仍然无法确定，这是不是同一架飞机，”马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)告诉记者。“所以我们才要在两个区域进行搜索。”
Malaysia is sharing the radar data with officials from American agencies, including the Federal Aviation Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board. Spokesmen for those agencies declined to comment on Wednesday, referring inquiries about Flight 370 to the Malaysian authorities.
马来西亚向美国联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)和美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)等美国机构的官员提供了这些雷达数据。周三，这些机构的发言人拒绝了置评请求，要求记者向马来西亚官方了解MH370的情况。
If experts determine that the radar signals probably did reflect the movements of Flight 370, the search for the plane will probably have to be expanded to vast new areas of the Indian Ocean. The final radar blip came from a location about 200 miles northwest of the island of Penang at 2:15 a.m. local time on Saturday, General Rodzali said, adding that the data showed the aircraft at “flight level 295,” aeronautical jargon for an altitude of 29,500 feet. That is near the aircraft’s usual cruising altitude — when the plane’s pilots were last heard from around 1:30 a.m., it was cruising at 35,000 feet — and the jet, a Boeing 777, was fueled for a six-hour flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, a journey of more than 2,500 miles.
如果专家确定这些雷达信号的确反映了MH370的飞行路径，搜索范围就很可能必须扩展到印度洋一些面积广阔的新区域。罗查理上将表示，最后的雷达光点出现在槟榔屿西北方向约200英里（约合322公里）的地方，当时是当地时间周六凌晨2:15。他还说，相关数据显示飞机处在“飞行高度295”，这里使用的是航空术语，指的是海拔2.95万英尺（约合9000米）。这个高度接近该飞机的正常巡航高度——凌晨1:30左右，人们最后一次听到飞机飞行员的声音时，飞机的巡航高度为3.5万英尺。这架波音(Boeing)777携有可供飞行6小时的燃油，原计划从吉隆坡飞往北京，行程超过2500英里。
“I have no feeling for what happened to this plane,” said David Learmount, operations and safety editor for Flightglobal, a news and data service for the aviation sector with its main office in Surrey, Britain. “The number of possibilities is so massive that’s its completely pointless.”
“我完全不知道这架飞机到底发生了什么，”Flightglobal的运营和安全编辑戴维·利尔芒特(David Learmount)说。“可能的情况实在太多，所以完全没有意义。”Flightglobal是一家面向航空业的新闻和数据服务机构，总部在英国萨里。
The existence of the radar data suggests that the Malaysian authorities may have missed a chance to dispatch military jets to intercept, identify and track the plane as it passed over the country. General Rodzali said interceptors were not scrambled because the unidentified plane was coming from civilian airspace.
雷达数据的存在表明，当这架飞机飞离马来西亚时，马来西亚官方或许错过了派军用飞机去拦截、识别及追踪这架飞机的机会。罗查理上将说，之所以没有派出拦截飞机，是因为这架不明飞机来自民用空域。
For days, official statements have put the last known contact with Flight 370 almost an hour earlier, at about 1:30 a.m. The aircraft’s transponders, which automatically transmit identifying information and some other data about the plane, including altitude, apparently ceased to function at 1:21 a.m.; after that, radar screens would show the plane only as an unidentified blip. Certain weather conditions, and even flocks of birds, may also occasionally cause radar blips that can be mistaken for unidentified aircraft.
数天来，官方声明已经把与370航班最后取得联系的时间往前推了近一个小时，推到了凌晨1点30左右。机上的异频雷达收发机似乎在凌晨1点21分停止了工作，该装置的功能是自动传输识别信息，以及包括飞行高度在内的其他相关数据。之后，该飞机将会在雷达屏幕上显示为一个无法识别的光点。特定的天气状况，甚至是鸟群，偶尔也会以光点的形式出现在雷达屏幕上，被误以为身份不明的飞机。