IN the season of resurrection, it’s fitting that he’s with us once again — bearded, prophetic, moralistic, promising to exalt the humble and cast down the mighty from their thrones.
在这万物复苏的时刻，他重回我们身边再合适不过了——留着胡须、先知一般，又爱说教，信誓旦旦地歌颂谦卑者，并要把当权者拉下马。
Yes, that’s right: Karl Marx is back from the dead.
是的，说对了：卡尔·马克思(Karl Marx)还魂了。
Not on a Soviet-style scale, mercifully, and not with the kind of near-scriptural authority that many Marxists once invested in him. But Marxist ideas are having an intellectual moment, and attention must be paid.
幸运的是，它并非以苏联那种规模出现，也不具备许多马克思主义者曾经笃信的那种近乎神祗的权威。然而，马克思主义思想在知识界再次现身，并且必须加以关注。
As Timothy Shenk writes in a searching essay for The Nation, there are two pillars to the current Marxist revival. One is the clutch of young intellectuals Shenk dubs the “Millennial Marxists,” whose experience of the financial crisis inspired a new look at Old Karl’s critique of capitalism. The M.M.’s have Occupy Wall Street as a failed-but-interesting political example; they have new-ish journals (Jacobin, The New Inquiry, n + 1) where they can experiment and argue; they are beginning to produce books, two of which Shenk reviews and praises.
蒂莫西·申克(Timothy Shenk)在《国家》周刊(The Nation)上发表了一篇文章，对此进行了深入探讨。文中称，马克思主义当前的复兴存在两大支柱。一是被申克称为“千禧世代马克思主义者”(Millennial Marxists)的一批青年知识分子。金融危机的经历激起他们重新审视老卡尔对资本主义的批判。这批人将“占领华尔街”运动视为失败却有趣的政治案例；他们有几个较新的刊物可以作为实践与辩论的平台（比如《雅各宾》季刊[Jacobin]和“新问询”网站[The New Inquiry]，及《n+1》杂志）；他们开始出版书籍，其中两本引得申克撰写了书评并予以了赞扬。
What they lack, however, is a synthesis, a story, of the kind that Marx himself offered. This is where the other pillar rises — Thomas Piketty’s “Capital in the Twenty-First Century,” a sweeping interpretation of modern economic trends recently translated from the French, and the one book this year that everyone in my profession will be required to pretend to have diligently read.
不过，他们缺少统一的叙事，就像马克思本人所做的那样。于是，第二个支柱应运而生——托马·皮克提(Thomas Piketty)所著的《二十一世纪资本论》(Capital in the Twenty-First Century)。这是一本对当代经济趋势进行全面诠释的大著，最近从法文翻译成了英文，可谓我这个领域的每个人必须假装已经啃下的年度之作。
Piketty himself is a social democrat who abjures the Marxist label. But as his title suggests, he is out to rehabilitate and recast one of Marx’s key ideas: that so-called “free markets,” by their nature, tend to enrich the owners of capital at the expense of people who own less of it.
皮克提本人是社会民主党人，与马克思主义正式划清了界线。然而，正如他的书籍标题展示的那样，他积极地恢复并重塑了马克思的一个重要观点：所谓的“自由市场”，本质上倾向于增强资本拥有者的力量，而牺牲的是资本较少的民众。
This idea seemed to be disproved in the 20th century, by the emergence of a prosperous, non-revolutionary working class. But Piketty argues that those developments were transitory, made possible mostly by the massive destruction of inherited capital during the long era of world war.
由于经济富足且不具革命性的工薪阶层得以崛起，这一观点似乎在20世纪被证伪。不过，皮克提认为，这些进步是暂时的，之所以能够实现，大部分是因为长时间的世界大战大肆破坏了继承资本。
Absent another such disruption, he expects a world in which the returns to capital permanently outstrip  —  as they have recently  —  the returns to labor, and inequality rises far beyond even today’s levels. Combine this trend with slowing growth, and we face a future like the 19th-century past, in which vast inherited fortunes bestride the landscape while the middle class fractures, weakens, shrinks.
在没有类似破坏的情况下，他预言，未来世界中，资本收益永久性地超越——正如近期所展现的情况——劳动收益，而贫富不均现象将远远超越今天的水平。这一趋势再与减缓的经济增长相结合，我们面临的未来恰如19世纪的过去：大规模的继承财富左右了社会面貌，而中产阶级在断裂、衰退并萎缩。
Piketty’s dark vision relies, in part, on economic models I am unqualified to assess. But it also relies on straightforward analysis of recent trends in Western economies, and here a little doubt-raising is in order.
皮克提的黑暗预测，一部分基于的是我没有资格评论的经济模型。可是，也有一部分基于的是对西方经济近期趋势的直观分析。在这方面，提出一点疑问实属正常。
In particular, as the Manhattan Institute’s Scott Winship has pointed out, Piketty’s data seems to understate the income gains enjoyed by most Americans over the last two generations. These gains have not been as impressive as during the post-World War II years, but they do exist: For now, even as the rich have gotten much, much richer, the 99 percent have shared in growing prosperity in real, measurable ways.
尤其是，正如曼哈顿学院(Manhattan Institute)的斯科特·温希普(Scott Winship)指出的那样，皮克提采用的数据似乎低估了多数美国民众在过去四五十年中增加的收入。这种增收不及二战结束初期显著，但的确存在：目前，就算富人更富了，而且是富得多得多了，可其余99%的民众也以真实而可衡量的方式分享了不断扩大的经济繁荣。
Winship’s point raises the possibility that even if Piketty’s broad projections are correct, the future he envisions might be much more stable and sustainable than many on the left tend to assume. Even if the income and wealth distributions look more Victorian, that is, the 99 percent may still be doing well enough to be wary of any political movement that seems too radical, too utopian, too inclined to rock the boat.
温希普的观点提出了一种可能性：即使皮克提的诸多预测是正确的，他所预言的未来可能比许多左翼人所认为的更稳定，更具可持续性。即使收入和财富分配似乎更像维多利亚时代，99%的民众也仍然生活得足够好，并因此而警惕任何看起来过于激进、过于理想主义，以及倾向于倾覆社会之舟的政治运动。
This possibility might help explain why the far left remains, for now, politically weak even as it enjoys a miniature intellectual renaissance. And it might hint at a reason that so much populist energy, in both the United States and Europe, has come from the right instead — from movements like the Tea Party, Britain’s UKIP, France’s National Front and others that incorporate some Piketty-esque arguments (attacks on crony capitalism; critiques of globalization) but foreground cultural anxieties instead.
这种可能性可能有助于解释，为什么在学术上小规模复兴的同时，极左翼在政治上仍然势单力薄。此外，它也可能会提示我们，为什么如此多的民粹主义力量，无论是美国还是欧洲，都来自右翼——来自茶党、英国独立党（U.K. Independence Party，缩写UKIP）、法国的国民阵线(National Front)等组织。这些组织融合了与皮克提类似的一些主张（对裙带资本主义的攻击；对全球化的批评），但突出的则是文化上的焦虑。
The taproot of agitation in 21st-century politics, this trend suggests, may indeed be a Marxian sense of everything solid melting into air. But what’s felt to be evaporating could turn out to be cultural identity — family and faith, sovereignty and community — much more than economic security.
从这种趋势可以看出，21世纪的政治争论的根源，可能确实如马克思主义者所认为的那样，是因为一切原本实实在在的东西都在变得虚无。但我们感觉正在虚化的东西可能是文化身份——家庭和信仰，主权和社区——而远非经济安全。
And somewhere in this pattern, perhaps, lies the beginnings of a  more ideologically complicated critique of modern capitalism — one that draws on cultural critics like Daniel Bell and Christopher Lasch rather than just looking to material concerns, and considers the possibility that our system’s greatest problem might not be the fact that it lets the rich claim more money than everyone else. Rather, it might be that both capitalism and the welfare state tend to weaken forms of solidarity that give meaning to life for many people, while offering nothing but money in their place.
按照这种模式，我们也许可以开始对现代资本主义进行意识形态上更复杂的分析——借助丹尼尔·贝尔(Daniel Bell)和克里斯托弗·赖什(Christopher Lasch)等文化批评人士进行的分析，它不仅仅关注物质上的担忧，而是考虑这样一种可能性，即我们制度的最大问题可能不是让富人有了比其他人更多的钱。相反，实际上，资本主义和福利国家往往削弱了赋予很多人生活意义的各种形式的团结感，却只提供钱作为替代品。