HI, I’M MARC,” says a smiling, shortish, muscular man in a very white shirt and black trousers with even whiter socks. He has a housekeeper (“This is Reisa”) and a personal chef (“This is Lauren”), but he answers the door of his West Village townhouse himself, at least when reporters come over. He looks 38 or 39 and is definitely Jewish, but maybe he could also be Greek. “I thought it was so strange this morning,” says Marc, who is not going to say anything stranger than the fact that he’s actually 52, “but Nick said, ‘I left you a folder with Sarah, a picture of Sarah,’ and I was like, ‘Why, so I wouldn’t let someone else in the building?’ But no, the press office just did it. They put a picture of you, and like, who you wrote for. Like, as if that would change anything.”
“嗨，我是马克，”一个满面笑容、个头稍矮、肌肉健硕的男人说道。他穿着非常白的衬衫、黑裤子以及比衬衫还白的袜子。他有管家（“这位是雷萨”）和私人大厨（“这位是劳伦”），但他亲自打开了自己在西村的联排别墅的大门，至少记者来访时是这样。他看起来三十八九岁的模样，肯定是犹太裔，但也可能是希腊裔。“我觉得今天早上的事很奇怪，”马克说。他实际上52岁，我觉得不管他要说的是什么，都不会比这个更奇怪。“尼克说，‘我给你留了一个关于萨拉的文件夹，里面有她的照片’，我说，‘怎么，难道我还会认错人？’不过新闻处已经给了我一张你的照片，还有你供职的媒体。好像那会改变什么似的。” 
Marc prefers not to use last names. In fact, he is bored with most ways of being identified. “I think it was after the Caitlyn Jenner thing,” he says, folding himself into a snail-colored sofa, “and I just said, like, can we just start calling people by their name? You know, not what they do for a living, not what their sexual preference is, not their age, not who they’re related to. It’s 2015. Just say, ‘Hi, I’m Caitlyn.’ ‘Hi, I’m Marc.’ It’s not like, ‘I’m Marc, homosexual Jew from New York.’ ” He laughs. “You know, ‘fashion designer.’ ”
马克不喜欢以姓相称。实际上，他厌倦大部分称呼。“在凯特琳·詹纳(Caitlyn Jenner)事件后，”他一边蜷进浅褐色沙发里一边说，“我对人们说，我们可以直接以名相称吗？不提职业，不提性取向，不提年龄，不提跟谁有关系。现在是2015年。只说，‘嗨，我是凯特琳。’ ‘嗨，我是马克。’而不是说，‘我是马克，是来自纽约的同性恋犹太人。’” 他大笑道，“还要说什么我是‘时装设计师’。” 
If Marc isn’t a fan of the full introduction, it’s partly because he hasn’t needed one since at least 2008, when Page Six made him a fixture and the New Yorker profiled him for a second time. Twenty-four years before that, in 1984, a 21-year-old Marc met a 30-year-old Robert, who became his business partner and best friend for life. This past February, Marc entered his fourth decade on the runway with a fall collection of after-eight wear in every available shade of “deep,” littered with minks and sequins and inspired by Diana Vreeland’s memos. (Imagine her now: “Don’t you think it would be a good idea if we did away with last names altogether?”) To industry observers, the show was both a dramaturgic triumph and a commercial departure from his on-trend yet offbeat sensibility: an announcement that “Marc Jacobs” means serious business. The company is allegedly, finally, going public within the next several months, which means the designer famous for changing his mind with the seasons may soon be bound by expectations not for newness but for quarterly earnings. “I was terrified last week,” he says when I ask how he’s sleeping. “I went to my shrink — it was a Wednesday morning — and I felt like I was having such a panic attack. I’d had one of my nightmares. It’s a recurring theme: I’m up against something uncomfortable or difficult, and just as I feel like I’m making some progress, there’s an end to the dream that says no, you’re not getting anywhere, you have to start over. This time, the nightmare was so bad that it felt like I was awake thinking about it, rather than asleep and dreaming. Which is another recurring thing, when I can’t differentiate between creating a scenario and dreaming it.”
马克不喜欢全面介绍，部分原因是他不需要全面介绍，至少是从2008年起是这样。那一年，《Page Six》杂志开始把他作为固定报道对象，《纽约客》(New Yorker)第二次对他进行人物专访。那之前的24年，也就是1984年，21岁的马克遇见了30岁的罗伯特(Robert)。罗伯特成为他的商业合作伙伴和一生挚友。今年2月，马克在秀台上推出一系列秋季晚装，开启秀台生涯的第四个十年。这个系列包括各种“深”色晚装，布满貂皮和亮片，灵感来自戴安娜·弗里兰(Diana Vreeland)的备忘录（想像一下，她要是活到现在，会说：“难道你不觉得我们完全不用姓氏是个好主意吗？”）。在行业观察家们看来，这场时装秀既是戏剧化的胜利，也使马克更为商业化，告别了他那尽管抓住流行趋势但又有些标新立异的感性风格：这是在宣告，“马克·雅可布”是个严肃的公司。据说，在未来几个月里，该公司终于要上市了，那意味着这位以每季都改变想法而闻名的设计师很快要面临的压力是季度收益，而非创新期待。“上周我很害怕，”我问他最近睡得好不好时，他说，“我去看了心理医生，那是一个周三的上午，我感到恐慌。我做了个噩梦。这个噩梦经常出现：我碰到了某种不舒服或困难的事情，就在我觉得自己取得进展时，梦到了尽头，它说，不，你什么也实现不了，你得重新开始。这次的梦特别可怕，我感觉自己是在醒着思考，而不是睡着做梦。这种情况也经常出现，我分不清自己到底是醒着在想象这些情景还是在做梦。”
Marc has been seeing shrinks since he was 7. From 11 or 12 to 19, he was raised in the Majestic, an acropolitan co-op on Central Park West, by his grandmother, Helen, who went around telling shop owners that her son’s son would be “the next Calvin.” She was right: Like Calvin, his name would become synonymous with youthful American sportswear, provocatively advertised. Unlike Calvin, who eventually settled into a repertoire of whistle-clean minimalism on the catwalk and heritage logowear on the street, Marc has kept his rangy mind on “next.” “If I think about the future,” he says, “I just become afraid.”
马克从7岁起开始看心理医生。从11岁或12岁至19岁，他在中央公园西一个名叫Majestic、雅典卫城式的的合作公寓里长大。照顾他的是奶奶海伦，海伦四处对店主们说，她孙子会成为“下一个卡尔文(Calvin)”。她说对了：和卡尔文一样，他的名字将成为美国年轻休闲服饰的同义词，通过撩人的广告进行宣传。不同的是，卡尔文最终在秀场服装方面固守于干净的极简主义风格，其普通成衣则依赖自己过往的名头以标识取胜，而马克思维更加灵动，他在不停寻找“下一个”。“一想到未来，”他说，“我就害怕。”
His fear is at odds with his reputation for effortlessly setting trends, yet his reputation belies his real talent: setting a trend on its head. In 1992 he showed his infamous “grunge collection” for Perry Ellis, perennially cited as the reason he was fired four months later and, since being fired made him sound like a rebel, as a groundbreaking moment in fashion. “I had no idea I’d be fired,” Marc tells me. He laughs. “I’d never had any idea I’d be fired. But it’s still my favorite collection, because it marked a time when I went with my instincts against instructions, and I turned out to be right. It came out of a genuine feeling for what I saw on the streets and all around me.” Indeed, grunge was already everywhere, from the streets to the malls to the collections of two other New York designers that very same season, but only Marc’s dream of the zeitgeist was so lucid, so precisely appropriated from what he saw, that the zeitgeist came to look like his creation. By taking $2 flannels from St. Marks Place and copying them in silk — a trick akin to his parents’ switching a “c” for “k” in his name — Marc made the familiar uncommon. For lunch today, Lauren serves three courses, each essentially a deconstructed smoothie in a shallow bowl. We eat in Marc’s fragrant backyard, from which you can hear neither the dogs and their walkers on the street (his own dogs Neville and Daisy are at the office) nor the cars on the West Side Highway. He gives me one of his Marlboro Lights, since Lauren mistook my pack for an extra one of Marc’s and tidied it away. “I love smokers,” he murmurs appreciatively. An addict from his late teens on, Marc says he gave up drugs — heroin, cocaine — for good in 2007 after a second stint in rehab. In 2006, after being diagnosed with the ulcerative colitis that killed his father, he hired a nutritionist and began working out with a personal trainer, a man who changed his legal name to Easy and is now one of Marc’s closest friends. We agree that smoking is “decadent,” and Marc tells me that Decadence, the name of his upcoming fragrance, is about “an irreverent, self-indulgent taking of pleasure and luxury.” He elaborates: “If somebody is eating cherries and drinking champagne on a street corner in an expensive dress, it’s a decadent sort of behavior, but it’s kind of playing at something. You know what I mean.”
他的恐惧与他轻松引领潮流的声誉不一致，不过他的声誉也掩盖了他真正的天分：颠覆潮流。1992年，他为Perry Ellis设计了臭名昭著的“格郎基系列”，一直以来这被认为是他四个月后遭到解雇的原因。遭解雇让他听起来像个叛逆者，成为时尚史上的革新性时刻。“我完全没料到自己会被解雇，”马克大笑着说，“我永远也不会想到自己会被解雇。但那仍是我最喜欢的一个系列，因为它代表着我跟着直觉走不听指挥的那个时期，结果证明我是对的。它来自我对街头和周围时装的真实感觉。”的确，当时格郎基已随处可见，从街头到购物中心到同一季另外两位纽约设计师的系列，只不过马克如此明确地追求时代思潮，如此精确地借鉴自己的所见，以至于像是他创造了时代思潮。马克能让寻常的东西变得不寻常：他从圣马克市场(St. Marks Place)买来两美元的法兰绒衣服，然后用丝绸仿制它们——这跟父母把他名字中的k换成c有点相像。那天的午餐，劳伦上了三道菜，每一道其实就是盛放在浅碗里的解构版水果奶昔。我们在马克芬芳的后院用餐，那里既听不到街上的犬吠或狗主人的呼唤（他自己的狗内维尔和黛西在办公室里），也听不到西区高速路上的汽车声。他递给我一根他的万宝路特醇香烟，因为劳伦把我的香烟当成马克多余的一盒烟给收走了。“我喜欢抽烟的人，”他赞赏地低语道。马克快20岁时就成了瘾君子，他说2007年第二次戒毒后，彻底告别了海洛因和可卡因等毒品。2006年，他被诊断出溃疡性结肠炎——他父亲死于这种疾病——他雇了一名营养师，并开始跟着私人教练健身。那位教练把自己身份证上的名字改为Easy，现在他是马克最亲密的朋友之一。我们都认为抽烟是“放纵的”。马克说，他即将上市的香水“放纵”(Decadence)代表着“傲慢放纵的享乐和奢侈”。他解释说：“如果有个人穿着昂贵的连衣裙，在街角吃樱桃，喝香槟，那是一种放纵的行为，但也是游戏。你知道我的意思。”
From 1998 to 2013, the clothes at Marc Jacobs could be delightfully unpredictable, and the ideas behind them occasionally unclear, but the branding was crystal. Juergen shot the print ads, which starred Sofia, Harmony, Chloë, Posh, Dakota, Winona and so on. The ads were all Juergen in their whitewashed debauchery and charm, but because Marc lent him a trust and a creative freedom that Juergen describes as unparalleled in fashion photography, they were also definitively Marc. In contrast, the print ads for Decadence star Adriana, the veteran Victoria’s Secret supermodel and the kind of unmysteriously sexy woman who was always a foil to the scatty-go-lucky “Marc Jacobs girl.” There’s hardly a trace of what Sofia describes as a hallmark of Marc’s personality: “a sly smile, which shows his sense of humor.” In the fall of 2013, Marc left his 16-year tenure as the creative director at Louis Vuitton. LVMH, the parent company and a majority owner of Marc Jacobs International as well as a one-third stakeholder in the trademark, announced that Marc Jacobs International would spend the next three years preparing for an IPO. A new beauty line was launched. A new C.E.O. was installed. New designers were hired, most prominently Katie and Luella, to reinvent Marc by Marc Jacobs, which Robert had established in 2001 as a less expensive, dearly beloved kid sister to the women’s wear line. (“It was supposed to be just ‘Marc Jacobs’ — like, we tried to gray out the ‘Jacobs’ on the label, but it just didn’t photograph,” says Marc.) Katie and Luella did by all accounts a stellar job, but last March, it was confirmed that Marc by Marc Jacobs was folding. The next day, Marc joined Instagram, a month after saying he was appalled by the whole social media thing. (“It’s very addictive,” he says now.) Today, Marc is not only the head designer of Marc Jacobs, which he and Robert say will absorb the range of items and price points formerly available at Marc by Marc Jacobs, but also the creative director of Marc Jacobs International as a whole. He has never had more control over himself, his body, the way he lives or — ostensibly — his brand.
从1998年至2013年，马克·雅可布的服装不可预料，令人兴奋，服装背后的概念偶尔模糊，但品牌推广却是清晰的。平面广告由于尔根(Juergen)拍摄，由索菲娅(Sofia)、哈莫尼(Harmony)、克洛伊(Chloë)、波什(Posh)、达科塔(Dakota)和薇诺娜(Winona)等人代言。那些广告全是于尔根的放荡和魅惑风格，不过于尔根说，马克给予他的信任和创作自由在时尚摄影界是无与伦比的，所以那些广告最终也是马克的风格。相比之下，“放纵”香水平面广告的代言人是阿德里安娜(Adriana)。她是维多利亚的秘密(Victoria’s Secret)的资深超级模特，是那种毫无神秘感可言的性感女人，完全不同于那种傻人有傻福型的“马克·雅可布女孩”。那个平面广告几乎没有一丝马克的标志性特点——“展示他幽默感的狡黠微笑”（索菲娅的表述）。2013年秋，马克在担任路易·威登(Louis Vuitton)的创意总监16年后离职。路易·威登所属的路威酩轩集团(LVMH)是马克·雅可布国际公司(Marc Jacobs International)的大股东，持有该品牌三分之一的股份。该集团宣布，马克·雅可布国际公司将用未来三年时间为IPO做准备。该公司启动新的美容产品系列，选任新的首席执行官，聘请新的设计师——最显眼的是凯蒂(Katie)和卢埃拉(Luella)——来重新改造马克·雅可布之马克(Marc by Marc Jacobs)。该品牌是2001年罗伯特创立的子品牌，比主品牌的价格便宜，同样深受喜爱（马克说，“本来只有‘马克·雅可布’，我们想要抹去品牌中的‘雅可布’，但那样又不够醒目”）。外界一致认为，凯蒂和卢埃拉表现得很好，但是去年3月，公司已经确定，要将Marc by Marc Jacobs并回主品牌。第二天，马克在Instagram上现身。在那之前一个月，他还说社交媒体这个东西让他害怕（现在他说，“它让人很上瘾”）。如今，马克不仅是马克·雅可布这个品牌的首席设计师，而且是马克·雅可布国际公司的创意总监。马克和罗伯特表示，马克·雅可布将会吸收马克·雅可布之马克之前的全部产品线和价位。他对自己以及自己的身体、生活方式和（从表面上看）品牌的控制度从未如此之大。
Marc himself says he doesn’t have a signature: There is no one silhouette, style or technique you can point to and say “that’s Marc.” There is, however, a recognizable Marc Jacobs woman. She’s the guest at the party who everyone looks at like they know her but can’t think from where, and who looks around like she’s never known anyone. She appears more out of time than out of place: Her skirt is calf-length and conservative with unsexy heels, but her T-shirt is sequined and see-through. Or she’s wearing polka dots with broderie anglaise and dirty sneakers, or she’s dressed like a disco queen in Daria glasses. She has an arsenal of Peter Pan collars and colored furs and brooches, but her hair looks like it was cut in the dark and her handbag matches nothing exactly. If you had to pick a decade, you’d go with the ’70s. If you had to pick a name, you’d go with something supremely uncool and therefore chic, like Judith, which is a name that Marc doesn’t say because it belonged to his mother, who died in 2011 but to whom he hadn’t spoken in almost 20 years. Judith, or Judy, was the kind of woman who looked in the mirror after getting dressed and put one more thing on. Her fashion idol was Jane Fonda in 1971’s “Klute.” Her taste has been described by Marc as “bad.” It is a strange coincidence that the Marc by Marc Jacobs design team has made silver knee-high boots named Judith and a striped bomber named Judy, and that the Marc Jacobs Beauty designer made a freckle-brown nail polish named Klute, but the feeling remains that Judith is the ghost in Marc’s clothes. The problem of Judith, of a tacky, manic glamour shedding all over a depressive cotton housedress, is the problem we can’t help missing when Marc makes one of his technically perfect returns to the airtight decadence of the Majestic. 
马克本人说，他没有标志：没有哪个剪裁、风格或技术可以明确地说“是马克的”。不过，有一个清晰可辨的马克·雅可布女人。她是派对上的宾客，谁看着她都觉得眼熟，只是想不起来在哪儿见过，而她环视四周的样子像是谁也不认识。她似乎更多的是不合时宜，而非不合地宜：她的裙子长及小腿，她的高跟鞋不性感，似乎有些保守，但她的T恤上有亮片，而且是透视的。她也可能穿着带有英式刺绣的波点裙，搭配脏脏的帆布鞋；也可能穿得像迪斯科皇后，戴着达里娅(Daria)式眼镜。她有各种娃娃领衣服和五颜六色的皮草和胸针，但她的发型像是摸黑剪出来的，她的手袋好像跟什么都不搭。如果非要弄清她的风格属于哪个时代，那可能是70年代。如果非要给她起个名字，那可能是很不酷但很别致的名字，比如朱迪思(Judith)。马克不会提这个名字，因为那是他母亲的名字。他母亲2011年去世，不过，她去世前，马克有近20年没跟她说过话。朱迪思或朱迪(Judy)是那种穿上衣服后照照镜子再添一件东西在身上的女人。她的时尚偶像是简·方达(Jane Fonda)在1971年影片《柳巷芳草》(Klute)中扮演的角色。马克说她品味“不佳”。马克·雅可布之马克的设计团队曾把一双银色齐膝长靴命名为朱迪思，把一件条纹短夹克命名为朱迪，马克·雅可布美妆产品的设计师把一款棕色斑点指甲油命名为Klute。这些或许是奇怪的巧合，不过人们依然觉得，朱迪思是马克服装的灵魂。朱迪思的问题，或说一件令人沮丧的棉质家居服却散发出俗气又疯癫的魅力的问题，就在于我们对它欲罢不能，每次马克在设计上完美地回归Majestic合作公寓那种无懈可击的放纵风格时，我们都会忍不住想念前者。
SIX DAYS AFTER OUR LUNCH, he accidentally leaks a picture of his naked butt to the 191,000 followers he has amassed in his first month on Instagram — a picture he meant to send to a potential lover via the app’s direct messaging feature — after which he responds to Tweets with a calm “Yeah… I’m a gay man. I flirt and chat with guys online.” Meanwhile, Marc Jacobs International changes its Twitter bio to the photo’s caption: “It’s yours to try.” It is a ready-made slogan, and the entire nonissue is yet another example of Marc and his team’s historical ingenuity, like the time in 2012 they turned an image of their vandalized Paris storefront into a series of $686 T-shirts.
我们共进午餐六天后，马克不小心把自己的裸臀照发到了Instagram上（他在Instagram上开设账户仅一个月就得到19.1万人关注），他本来是想通过这个应用程序的即时通讯功能把照片发给一位潜在情人。之后，他在Twitter上平静地回复说，“是的……我是同性恋。我在网上和男人们调情、聊天。”同时，马克·雅可布国际公司将其Twitter官方账号的简介改成了那张照片的注释：“你来试试吧(It’s yours to try)”。这是现成的广告词。其实这件事没什么大不了的，只是马克及其团队一贯独特创造性的又一案例。就像在2012年，马克·雅可布的巴黎店铺遭到恶意涂鸦，他们把它拍下来，印在T恤上，标价686美元出售。
It’s a conflict to be both romantic and famous, and Marc has never seemed very romantic. But he does strike me as sentimental. The fall ad campaign features many women who have been close to him for decades, including Sofia and Winona. The captions accompanying his own “leaked” Instagrams of the images are long and sweet. Marc says the dresses he designed for the season are not meant to be dry-cleaned and preserved in garment bags, but worn out all night — a sign he is still more interested in bringing the party to American fashion in a way no designer has since Yves.
浪漫和名气是冲突的，马克似乎从来都不太浪漫。但他的确让我觉得很感性。今年秋季广告的模特是很多几十年来一直和他很亲近的女人，包括索菲娅和薇诺娜。他自己在Instagram上“泄露”的广告图片配上了大段甜蜜的注释。马克说，他为这一季设计的连衣裙不是需要干洗后放在衣袋中精心保存的，而是可以整晚穿出去的。这表明，他依然对把狂欢的感觉引入美国时尚很感兴趣，他采取的方式自伊夫(Yves)以来无人试过。
When something makes Marc feel good, he wants more of it, whether it’s drugs or food or sex or exercise or making clothes or getting tattooed. One of his tattoos is an all-caps “perfect” on his wrist, reminding him that he’s exactly who and where he’s supposed to be at that moment, and that everything is good because it’s there. It’s really about acceptance, not perfection. He wants to make precious things that people aren’t precious about. His favorite work of art is Marcel Duchamp’s “L.H.O.O.Q.,” the Mona Lisa with a mustache, because anything is more interesting next to something that doesn’t seem to match.
如果有什么东西让马克觉得不错，他会想要更多，不管是毒品、美食、性爱，还是健身、设计服装和纹身。他有一个刺在手腕上的纹身是大写的perfect，提醒自己当时的他和所在的处境正是他想要的。而且因为有这个纹身，一切都很好。它其实代表着接纳自我，而非真的完美。他想创造人们不够珍惜的宝物。他最喜欢的艺术品是马塞尔·迪尚(Marcel Duchamp)的《带胡须的蒙娜丽莎》(L.H.O.O.Q.)，因为只要放在不相配的东西旁边，一切都变得更有趣。
That day at lunch, 18 cigarettes or 90-some minutes into our conversation, he tells me that he often gets déjà vu, an experience he relates to the alternate realities of “The Matrix” (1999). This in turn reminds him that he’s a big fan of Lana, who directed the movie with her brother. During the 2000s, when Marc was trading his schlubby, bespectacled exterior for that of a tattooed and blue-haired gym rat, Lana was practically a recluse. She was also transitioning from Larry. In 2012, she appeared for the first time as a woman in a trailer for one of her co-productions. “Hi,” she said. “I’m Lana.” Later that year, she gave a reluctant, generous and self-baring speech in acceptance of the Human Rights Campaign Visibility Award. She talked about her family, about the time she almost killed herself and about love. She didn’t have to talk about identity. Since Marc first saw it several months ago, he has watched it almost every week. I ask him to tell me one of her lines, and he does it verbatim: “There are some things that we have to do for ourselves, but there are other things that we do for other people.”
那天午餐时，我们抽到第18根烟，谈了大概90分钟后，他告诉我，他经常有似曾相识(déjà vu)的感觉。他认为这种体验与《黑客帝国》(The Matrix, 1999)中两种现实不断交替的场景相似。这让他想起，自己是拉娜(Lana)的忠实粉丝。拉娜和弟弟共同导演了《黑客帝国》。在21世纪的头十年里，马克从身材走形的眼镜男变身为染着蓝色头发、有纹身的健美男，而拉娜几乎在隐居，经历着从拉里(Larry)到拉娜的转变。2012年，她首次以女人的形象出现在自己联合制作的一部影片的宣传片中。她在片中说道，“嗨，我是拉娜。”那年年底，她接受人权战线组织(Human Rights Campaign)授予的能见度奖(Visibility Award)。虽然不太情愿，她还是在现场大度地发表了袒露内心的演讲。她谈到自己的家庭，谈到自己一度几乎自杀，也谈到爱情。她不必谈论身份。自从几个月前马克第一次看到这次演讲后，他几乎每周都要看一遍。我让他给我说一些她演讲中的话，他一字不差地说：“有些事情我们必须为自己而做，但也有些事情我们必须为他人而做。”
A beat or two passes. He seems to be thinking about what it means. Then Lauren comes to clear the second course, and it’s time for dessert.
他沉默了几秒钟，似乎是在思考这句话的意思。这时，劳伦过来撤掉了第二道主菜的盘子，该吃甜点了。