BAGHDAD — Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki’s defiant fight to retain power in Iraq appeared to collapse on Tuesday after his former backers in Iran, the military and his own party all signaled that he could no longer expect their support.
巴格达——周二，伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)为了攥紧大权而顽抗的斗争，似乎已经失败。他过去在伊朗、军方，以及他自己所在党派的支持者都表示，马利基不会再得到他们的支持了。
He issued a statement saying that the security forces, which he had deployed around the capital on Monday in what some took to be preparations for a coup, should stay out of politics. And the conversation in Baghdad shifted to how he would leave office and on what terms.
马利基发表声明称，安全部队不应干预政治。此前，马利基曾在周一将部队部署到巴格达各处，有人认为他这是在准备发动政变。在巴格达，各方议论的话题已经变成了他将如何下台、条件是什么。
The shift came after Mr. Maliki made several last-ditch efforts to shore up support, only to be confronted late Monday night with delegations of officials, all pleading with him to back down for the good of the country.
此前，马利基为了争取支持，做了几次最后的努力。然而周一晚间，官员代表团表现出了对抗的态度，他们都恳请马利基为了国家利益做出退让。
The next morning, an important Iraqi Army general in Baghdad reached out to Iraq’s new president, Fuad Masum, and the man he nominated to be the next prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, and delivered the message that the military would not stand by Mr. Maliki, according to a senior Iraqi official.
一名伊拉克高官透露，次日上午，伊拉克陆军在巴格达的一名重要将领向新任总统福阿德·马苏姆(Fuad Masum)，以及马苏姆提名的下一任总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)示好，并传达了军方不会站在马利基那边的讯息。
Hours later, Mr. Maliki’s office released a statement that reflected both the growing opposition to him and the reality that the military probably would not back him anyway, if he tried to mount a coup: “Prime Minister Maliki urges commanders, officers and individuals to stay away from the political crisis and to commit to their military and security duties and tasks to protect the country, and not to intervene in this crisis. Leave this issue to the people, politicians and justice.”
几小时后，马利基的办公室发表了一项声明，这项声明既反映了他所面对的反对力量越来越强，也表明了即使他试图发动政变，军方可能也不会支持他：“马利基总理督促指挥官、军官和士兵远离这场政治危机，严格履行他们的军事和安全职责，完成保卫祖国的任务，不要干预这场危机。把这件事交给人民、政界和司法部门处理。”
Iran, a longtime supporter of Mr. Maliki’s, also lent its weight on Tuesday to the constitutional process of replacing him with Mr. Abadi, adding pressure on Mr. Maliki to retreat from his threats. The secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council, Ali Shamkhani, congratulated Mr. Abadi during a meeting of Iranian ambassadors, the official Islamic Republic News Agency reported.
长期以来，马利基一直受到伊朗的支持。但周二，伊朗也开始发挥影响力，介入由阿巴迪替代马利基的宪法程序。于是，马利基受到了更大的压力，不得不考虑收回威胁。伊朗官方通讯社伊斯兰共和国通讯社(Islamic Republic News Agency)报道，伊朗最高国家安全委员会(Supreme National Security Council)秘书阿里·沙姆哈尼(Ali Shamkhani)在一次与伊朗大使的会晤中，对阿巴迪表示了祝贺。
The Iranian Foreign Ministry also voiced its support for Mr. Abadi, saying in a statement, according to the Tasnim News Agency, “The Islamic Republic of Iran supports all the steps taken in line with completing the political process in Iraq.”
据伊朗塔斯尼姆通讯社(Tasnim News Agency)报道，伊朗外交部也在声明中表达了对阿巴迪的支持。“伊朗伊斯兰共和国支持所有有助于完成伊拉克政治进程的举措。”
Some Iraqis said privately that Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, Iraq’s influential Shiite cleric, also played an important role in orchestrating Mr. Maliki’s retreat, dispatching emissaries to Iran and successfully seeking the government’s cooperation in pressuring Mr. Maliki.  
一些伊拉克人私底下表示，伊拉克颇有影响力的什叶派宗教领袖阿亚图拉阿里·西斯塔尼(Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani)，在谋划马利基下台的过程中也发挥了重要作用。他向伊朗派遣密使，最后成功争取到了伊朗政府的合作，以便共同对马利基施压。
Ayatollah Sistani was known to have been increasingly vexed over the political paralysis in Baghdad as militants with the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria were gaining ground. 
据称，随着伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的武装分子不断挺近，西斯塔尼对巴格达的政治僵局也愈发感到不满。
The Obama administration, which has deployed United States warplanes to help the Iraqi government battle a marauding force of Sunni militants in northern and western Iraq, has been pressing Mr. Maliki to move aside. President Obama and his top aide congratulated Mr. Abadi on Monday and exhorted him to quickly form an inclusive government that would depart from Mr. Maliki’s polarizing policies, which have alienated many in the Sunni and Kurd minorities.
奥巴马政府派出了美国战机，帮伊拉克政府对抗在该国北部和西部肆意妄为的逊尼派武装分子。奥巴马政府也一直在迫使马利基退到一边。周一，奥巴马总统和他的高级助手向阿巴迪表示祝贺，并劝告他迅速组建一个包容的政府，也劝告新政府摒弃马利基那种导致分化的政策。马利基的政策疏远了许多少数族群，如逊尼派和库尔德人。
Secretary of State John Kerry and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said the United States would consider expanding military and political support for Iraq if Mr. Abadi assumed the duties of prime minister and formed a more inclusive government.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)表示，如果阿巴迪承担起总理的职责，组建一个更具包容性的政府，美国将考虑扩大对伊拉克的军事和政治支持。
Mr. Abadi, a lawmaker from Mr. Maliki’s own Shiite Islamist Dawa Party, moved to mollify Mr. Maliki on Monday, urging him to join the process of government formation. However, Mr. Abadi pointedly referred to Mr. Maliki as the “outgoing” prime minister, even though Mr. Maliki remains Iraq’s leader, and commander in chief, until Mr. Abadi forms a new government. He has 30 days to do so under the constitution.
周一，作为马利基所在的什叶派政党伊斯兰达瓦党(Islamist Dawa Party)的议员，阿巴迪安抚了马利基，敦促他加入组建政府的流程。然而，尽管在阿巴迪组建新政府之前，马利基依然是伊拉克的领导人和军队总司令，但是阿巴迪却直截了当地称呼马利基是“即将离任”的总理。按照宪法的规定，阿巴迪有30天的时间组建新政府。
In a statement, Mr. Abadi said that Mr. Maliki was “a brother and companion and he will remain so.”
阿巴迪在一份声明中说，马利基“现在是，将来也仍然是一个兄弟、一个同伴”。
“He is a central partner in politics in Iraq,” he continued.
“他是伊拉克政坛中的核心合作伙伴，”阿巴迪接着说。
Mr. Abadi also praised the security forces, which was seen as an effort by him to reassure military officers who may feel they owe their positions to Mr. Maliki and are worried about losing their jobs under new leadership.
阿巴迪还表扬了安全部队，他的这一举动被认为是为了消除一些军人的疑虑。他们可能认为，自己得到现在的职位应归功于马利基，所以担心在新一届政府的领导下会丢掉饭碗。
The quickly shifting messages — from a possible military coup one day, followed by late-night meetings and subtle public statements that carry deeper meanings the next — were particularly emblematic of Iraqi political gamesmanship.
从前一天还可能发生军事政变，到深夜举行的会议，再到第二天微妙但有深层含义的公开声明——消息走向的迅速转变，是伊拉克的政治斗争中，特别典型的现象。
“This is how it works in Iraq,” said Kenneth M. Pollack, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. The message from Mr. Abadi to Mr. Maliki was, he said, “exactly what you’d expect: He’s reassuring Maliki, ‘I will not throw you to the wolves.’ ”
“这就是伊拉克的政治运作方式，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)高级研究员肯尼斯·M·波拉克(Kenneth M. Pollack)说。他表示，阿巴迪传达给马利基的信息，“正是人们所预期的：他是在让马利基放心，‘我不会把你扔进狼群里’。”
One Shiite leader, who spoke anonymously about the confidential negotiations, said Mr. Maliki was “calm now and realizes that all his friends left him and joined the other camp.”
一名就秘密谈判匿名接受采访的什叶派领导人表示，马利基“现在平静下来了，意识到所有朋友都已弃他而去，加入了另一阵营”。
“If Maliki accepts backing Abadi,” he added, “and wants to be part of the team that forms the government, this will be his way to save face and keep his prestige as a top Shiite leader.”
“如果马利基愿意支持阿巴迪，”他接着说，“并愿意加入组成政府的团队，这将是让他挽回颜面，延续作为什叶派领导人的威望的一种途径。”