PARIS — The French presidential runoff transcended national politics. It was globalization against nationalism. It was the future versus the past. Open versus closed.
巴黎——法国的总统决选超越了国家政治层面。它是全球化与民族主义的角力，是未来与过去的对抗，是开放与封闭的对决。
But in his resounding victory Sunday night, Emmanuel Macron, the centrist and political novice, won because he was the beneficiary of a uniquely French historic and cultural legacy, where many voters wanted change but were appalled at the type of populist anger that had upturned politics in Britain and the United States. He trounced far-right candidate Marine Le Pen, keeping her well under 40 percent, even as her aides said before the vote that anything below that figure would be considered a failure.
但是，周日晚上，中间派政治新手埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)的压倒性胜利则得益于法国独特的历史和文化遗产：很多选民想要做出改变，但对颠覆英美政坛的那种民粹主义愤怒感到恐惧。马克龙轻松战胜了极右翼候选人马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)，后者的支持率大大低于40%，尽管她的助手们在投票前表示，只要低于这个数字，就算是失败。
His victory quickly brought joy from Europe’s political establishment, especially since a Le Pen victory would have plunged the European Union into crisis. But in the end, Macron, only 39, a former investment banker and an uninspired campaigner, won because of luck, an unexpected demonstration of political skill, and the ingrained fears and contempt that a majority of French still feel toward Le Pen and her party, the National Front.
欧洲的政治建制派立刻为他的胜利感到欢欣鼓舞，尤其是考虑到假如马琳·勒庞获胜，欧盟将陷入危机。年仅39岁的前投资银行家马克龙在竞选过程中表现得平淡无奇，但他最终凭借运气、出人意料的政治技巧，以及大部分法国人对勒庞及其政党国民阵线(National Front)依然怀有的根深蒂固的恐惧和蔑视获得了胜利。
For the past year, a pressing political question has been whether widespread public frustration against Western political establishments had morphed into a global populist movement. Britain’s vote to leave the EU in June, followed by the presidential election of Donald Trump in the United States, created the impression of a mounting wave. Le Pen, stalwart of the European far right, was the next truly big test.
过去一年里的一个迫切的政治问题是公众对西方政治体制的广泛失望是否已演变成全球民粹主义运动。去年6月英国投票脱离欧盟，后来唐纳德·特朗普当选美国总统，这些都给人造成一种该股浪潮在不断上涨的印象。欧洲极右翼坚定分子勒庞曾是下一个真正的考验。
But Le Pen’s challenge was different because French history is different. She has spent the last six years as president of the National Front single-mindedly focused on one objective: erasing the stain of her party’s association with the ex-collaborationists, right-wing extremists, immigrant-hating racists and anti-Semites who founded it 45 years ago.
但由于法国独特的历史，勒庞面对的挑战也不相同。在过去六年里，作为国民阵线的领袖，她专注于一个目标：抹去该党的最大污点，那就是与前二战通敌者、右翼极端分子、憎恨移民的种族主义者，以及反犹太者的联系。45年前，正是这些人成立了该政党。
She knew — as her father, the party patriarch Jean-Marie Le Pen, always refused to acknowledge — that she would always be a minority candidate as long as she reminded the French of perhaps the greatest stain in their history, the four years of far-right rule during World War II. Inside and outside the party this process was called “undemonization” — a term suggesting the demons still associated with her party. The French do not want them back.
她知道——正如她的父亲、该党创始人让-玛里·勒庞(Jean-Marie Le Pen)一直拒绝承认的——只要法国人想起该国历史上最大的污点，也就是二战期间那四年的极右统治，她就永远是少数派候选人。在该党内外，这个过程被称为“去妖魔化”——这个词意味着她的政党依然与妖魔联系在一起。法国人不希望他们回归。
“There was no choice. I couldn’t vote for Le Pen. You’re not going to vote for the extremist,” said Martine Nurit, 52, a small-restaurant owner who had just cast her ballot in Paris’ 20th Arrondissement on Sunday. She had voted for the far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon in the first round, on April 23, and it was with “not an ounce of joy” that she voted for the “business-oriented” Macron in the second.
“我没有别的选择。我不能投票给勒庞。你不能支持极端主义者，”周日，52岁的小餐馆老板玛蒂娜·尼里(Martine Nurit)在巴黎第20区投票后表示。在4月23日的第一轮投票中，她投给了极左候选人让-吕克·梅朗雄(Jean-Luc Mélenchon)，她表示，在第二轮投票中支持“以商业为导向”的马克龙，她“没有一丝喜悦”。
“Mostly, I voted against Le Pen,” she said.
“我主要是投票反对勒庞，”她说。
In the end Marine Le Pen failed to “undemonize,” spectacularly. She failed during the course of the campaign, when her angry rallies drew the Front inexorably back into the swamp from which it had emerged. And then she failed decisively in one of the campaign’s critical moments, last week’s debate with Macron, when she effectively “redemonized” herself and the party, as many French commentators noted.
最终，马琳·勒庞完全未能“去妖魔化”。她在竞选活动中未能做到这一点，她那些愤怒的集会不可逆转地把国民阵线拉回它当初诞生的泥潭之中。然后，在竞选的一个关键时刻，她再次失手——正如很多法国评论人士指出的，在上周与马克龙的辩论中，她实际上“重新妖魔化了”自己和该政党。
It was an hourslong tirade against Macron, laced with name-calling and epithets, and woefully deficient in substance. She appeared lost on subject after subject, fumbling on one of her signature issues — withdrawing from the euro — that is opposed by a majority of French. Something essential about Le Pen, and the National Front, had been revealed to France.
那是对马克龙长达数小时的抨击，点缀着辱骂和贬低，可惜缺乏实质性内容。她似乎在一个又一个主题上迷失，在她标志性的脱欧问题上支支吾吾——脱欧遭到大部分法国人反对。勒庞和国家阵线最重要的一面呈现在了法国人面前。
Macron, on the other hand, demonstrated a quality that French voters, unlike many Anglo-Saxon ones, have long found essential in their successful candidates: cool mastery of the critical issues confronting the country. Where Le Pen repeatedly lost herself in the weeds, Macron sailed right through them. Whether he will be able to translate that knowledge into action is another question.
而马克龙则表现出法国选民长期以来认为成功候选人最重要的素质：能够冷静地把握国家面临的关键问题——在这一点上，法国选民与很多美英民众不同。勒庞多次迷失在无关紧要的事情上，而马克龙始终保持清醒。他是否能将相关知识转化为行动是另一个问题。
Macron’s final correct bet was that French voters, like those elsewhere, were disgusted by the mainstream parties, having judged the policy prescriptions of both the establishment right and left as failures in dealing with France’s multiple ills. He positioned himself in the center, drawing on left and right, balancing protection of the French welfare state with mild encouragement for business, in an attempt to break through France’s employment and productivity stagnation.
马克龙最后赌对的一点是，与其他地方的选民一样，法国选民对主流政党感到厌恶，认为左翼和右翼建制派的政策方案都不能解决法国的多重弊病。他把自己定位在中间，吸收左翼和右翼的观点，在保护法国的福利制度与温和地鼓励商业之间取得平衡，试图打破该国的就业和生产力停滞状况。
But Macron’s pro-market views stirred much opposition. Mélenchon not only refused to endorse him, but also encouraged the idea that Macron and Le Pen were equivalent menaces — a calculation endorsed by many far-left voters. Nearly half the first-round electorate voted for candidates hostile to the free market and to capitalism. Even if they voted for Macron Sunday to save the country from Le Pen, they did so without enthusiasm.
不过，马克龙鼓励市场的观点遭到很多人反对。梅朗雄不但拒绝支持他，而且认为他带来的威胁与勒庞相当——这是很多极左选民的看法。在第一轮投票中，近半数的选民把票投给了敌视自由市场和资本主义的候选人。即便他们周日为避免国家落入勒庞之手而投票给马克龙，那也是不得已而为之。
Without an established party behind him, Macron’s most immediate hurdle will be in June’s legislative elections for France’s Parliament. He has promised to field candidates in all 577 parliamentary districts, but whether he can do so is unclear. Nor is it clear how many Socialists will support his program.
马克龙身后没有一个历史悠久的政党，他马上会遇到的障碍就是6月份的议会选举。他承诺在所有577个议会选区中安排候选人，但能否做到尚未可知。也不清楚有多少社会党人会支持他的计划。
The National Front could win as many as 100 seats in the new Parliament, according to some analyses, making it a formidable opposition party. Indeed, even as Le Pen was soundly defeated on Sunday, she still managed a showing that not too long ago would have been unthinkable. And in her concession, she made it clear that she was already looking toward the parliamentary elections, and the future.
据某些分析称，国民阵线在新议会中能赢得多达100个席位，成为一个强大的反对党。实际上，虽然勒庞在周日被彻底打败，但她获得的成绩在不久之前还是不可想像的。她在败选演讲中明确表示，她已经在展望议会选举和未来。
Then there is the potential opposition represented by Mélenchon, who won in some of France’s biggest cities — Marseilles, Toulouse and Lille — and is already claiming the mantle of Macron’s principal opponent on the left. His voters, as much as Le Pen’s, do not trust Macron.
马克龙可能还会面对以梅朗雄为代表的人士的反对。梅朗雄在马赛、图卢兹和里尔等一些大城市获得了胜利，并已声称自己是马克龙最主要的左翼对手。他的选民和勒庞的选民一样不信任马克龙。
Macron, in his uncharacteristically brief and sober victory speech Sunday night, recognized that he had many people to win over.
周日晚上，马克龙在不同寻常的简短冷静的胜选演讲中承认，自己还需要赢得很多人的支持。
“My responsibility will be to unite all the women and men ready to take on the tremendous challenges which are waiting for us, and to act,” Macron said. “I will fight with all my power against the divisions that undermine us, and which are tearing us apart.”
“我的责任将是团结所有准备迎接我们面临的巨大挑战并采取行动的女人和男人们，”马克龙说。“我将竭尽全力去对抗危害我们、毁灭我们的各种分裂。”