SEPANG, Malaysia — The Malaysian authorities now believe that a jetliner missing since Saturday may have radically changed course around the time that it stopped communicating with ground controllers. But there were conflicting accounts of the course change and what may have happened afterward, adding to the air of confusion and disarray surrounding the investigation and search operation.
马来西亚雪邦——马来西亚当局现在认为，周六消失的那架喷气客机可能彻底改变了航向，改变航向的时间大致是在客机停止与地面控制人员联系的时候。不过，关于航向改变以及改变之后的可能情况，各方言论不一，加剧了调查和搜救工作的疑惑和混乱氛围。
As criticism of their inability to find any trace of the jet has mounted, the Malaysian authorities have repeatedly insisted that they were doing their best to solve the mystery of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, with scarce data and almost no precedent. Yet the government and the airline have also released imprecise, incomplete and sometimes inaccurate information, with civilian officials contradicting military leaders.
随着对其无力寻获失联飞机蛛丝马迹的指责与日俱增，马来西亚当局多次坚称，自己正在尽最大努力解开马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班的谜团，只不过手头的数据很少，而且几乎没有可供参照的先例。然而，马来西亚政府和马航也公布了一些不精确、不完整有时甚至不准确的信息，文职官员和军方领导人的说法还相互矛盾。
On Tuesday, the fourth day after the plane disappeared while on an overnight flight to Beijing, the country’s air force chief, Gen. Rodzali Daud, was quoted in a Malaysian newspaper saying the military had received “signals” on Saturday that after the aircraft stopped communicating with ground controllers, it changed course sharply, from heading northeast to heading west, lowered its altitude, and flew hundreds of miles across Peninsular Malaysia and out over the Strait of Malacca, before the tracking went blank.
周二，也就是那架夜里飞往北京的航班消失的第四天，马来西亚一家报纸援引该国空军司令罗查理·达乌德上将(Rodzali Daud)的话称，军方周六接收到的“信号”表明，在停止与地面控制人员联系后，飞机航向发生了急剧的变化，从飞向东北飞改为向西，飞行高度也有下降，飞机继续飞行了几百英里，飞过马来半岛，进入马六甲海峡(Strait of Malacca)上空，之后便失去了踪迹。
The air force chief did not say what kind of signals the military had tracked. But his remarks raised questions about whether the military had noticed the plane as it flew across the country and about when it informed civilian authorities.
这名空军司令没说军方追踪到的是哪种信号。但他这番话使得人们提出了疑问，马来西亚军方是否在该飞机飞越本国时注意到了它，又是在何时通知了文职政府。
According to the general’s account, the last sign of the plane was recorded at 2:40 a.m., and the aircraft was then near Pulau Perak, an island more than 100 miles off the western shore of the Malaysian peninsula.
按照这名上将的说法，最后追踪到飞机的时间是凌晨2点40，飞机当时在离马来半岛西海岸超过100英里（约合161公里）的霹雳岛附近。
That assertion stunned aviation experts as well as people in China, who had been told again and again that the authorities lost contact with the plane more than an hour earlier, when it was on course over the Gulf of Thailand, east of the peninsula. But the new account seemed to fit with the decision on Monday, previously unexplained, to expand the search area to include waters west of the peninsula.
这一说法震惊了航空专家和中方人员，因为他们曾一遍又一遍地被告知，在前述时间之前一个多小时，当飞机按规定航线飞越马来半岛东面的泰国湾时，当局就失去了与飞机的联系。然而，这一新说法似乎与周一将搜救范围扩大到包括马来半岛西面水域的决定相符。之前，官方对该决定未作解释。
David Learmount, operations and safety editor at Flightglobal, a news and data service for the aviation sector, said the Malaysian government seemed evasive and confused, and he questioned why, if the remarks attributed to General Daud were true, the government took so long to reveal evidence about a westward flight path.
Flightglobal是一个针对航空领域的新闻和数据服务机构，该机构运营和安全编辑戴维·利尔芒特(David Learmount)表示，马来西亚政府显得闪烁其词、迷惑不解。他质疑，如果达乌德上将的话属实，政府为何过了这么久才透露飞机往西飞的证据。
“The relatives of the people who’ve gone missing are being deprived of information about what’s happened to the airplane — that for me is the issue,” he said. “If somebody knows something and isn’t telling, that’s not nice under the circumstances,” he said.
“失踪乘客的亲人被剥夺了了解飞机遭遇的机会——对我来说，这是个大问题，”他说。“在这种情况下，知情不报是不对的。”
Adding to the confusion, Tengku Sariffuddin Tengku Ahmad, spokesman for the prime minister’s office, said in a telephone interview that he had checked with senior military officials, who told him there was no evidence that the plane had recrossed the Malaysian peninsula, only that it may have attempted to turn back.
让人们更加困惑的是，马来西亚总理办公室发言人东姑·沙里弗丁·东古·艾哈迈德(Tengku Sariffuddin Tengku Ahmad)在接受电话采访时称，自己曾向多位高级军官求证，那些军官告诉他，没有证据表明飞机曾再次飞越马来半岛，只是可能曾尝试返航。
“As far as they know, except for the air turn-back, there is no new development,” Mr. Tengku Sariffuddin, adding that the reported remarks by the air force chief were “not true.”
“据他们所知，除了发现飞机或有返航迹象外，还没有什么新进展，”东姑·沙里弗丁说。他补充说，报道中提到的空军司令言论是“不实的”。
Malaysia Airlines, meanwhile, offered a third, conflicting account. In a statement, the airline said authorities were “looking at a possibility” that the plane was headed to Subang, an airport outside Kuala Lumpur that handles mainly domestic flights.
与此同时，马航还提出了第三种与其他说法矛盾的说法。在一份声明中，马航表示，当局正在“调查”飞机飞往吉隆坡市外雪邦机场的“可能性”，雪邦机场主要起降国内航班。