Yo-Yo Ma began playing the cello at the age of 4. Now 57, he has received numerous Grammy Awards, the National Medal of Arts and the Presidential Medal of Freedom. In 1998 Mr. Ma founded the Silk Road Project, a nonprofit organization that brings together musicians from around the world. Last month, Sony Masterworks released his Silk Road Ensemble’s “Playlist Without Borders” CD and “Live From Tanglewood” concert DVD. Mr. Ma recently called from his home in Cambridge, Mass. A condensed and edited version of our conversation follows:
马友友从4岁就开始拉大提琴，如今57岁的他已经荣膺无数格莱美奖，还获得了国家艺术勋章和总统自由勋章。1998年，马友友发起了“丝绸之路”(Silk Road Project)计划，这是一个非盈利组织，致力于让全世界的音乐家聚在一起合作。上个月，索尼大师作品公司(Sony Masterworks)发行了他的丝绸之路乐团的《无疆界之音》(Playlist Without Borders)CD和《坦格伍德现场》(Live From Tanglewood)音乐会DVD。马友友最近在马萨诸塞州剑桥家中接受了电话采访。下面是经过编辑删节的采访实录：
Do you ever wonder why it was you and not someone else who became a great cellist? What sets you apart?
你有没有想过自己为什么成了伟大的大提琴音乐家，而不是其他人，是什么令你脱颖而出？
Let me just say that I have no idea. I’m an accident. I don’t think there’s a rhyme or reason and I have spent a lot of time thinking about it. Why do I get these chances? Is it because I play faster? No. It’s a whole series of circumstances — some I work for, some come from my parents, my teachers, the points that are catalytic, the move, going to college, meeting my wife and knowing my children. It’s a confluence.
我得说我也不知道。我出名完全是个意外。我觉得这里没什么规律或者原因，我也没怎么费心去想。我为什么得到了那些机会？是因为我拉得比别人快？不是。这是一系列环境作用的结果，有些是我自己的努力，有些是父母和老师们努力的成果，还有那些催化剂，比如搬来美国、上大学、遇到我的妻子，了解我的孩子们。这是一种合力。
Earlier this year at the Aspen Ideas Festival you said it wasn’t until you turned 49 that you thought being a musician was cool. What did you mean by that?
今年初的阿斯彭理念节(Aspen Ideas Festival)上，你说自己直到49岁才觉得搞音乐是一件很酷的事。请问这话是什么意思？
Since I always played, as far as I can remember, I never said, “This is what I want to do.” And I think I always wondered: “Gee, could I have been this? Could I have done that? What would have happened if …?” What came up at age 49 is I realized that of all the things I’m interested in, the thing I’m most interested in is figuring out what makes people tick, why people think the way they do, why they act the way they do. And I realized that music is such a great way to investigate why people do what they do.
因为我从记事以来一直都在演奏，从来没对自己说过：“这是我真正想做的事。”我总在想：“这个，我当初要是搞这个会怎样，我要是搞那个会怎样，假如我当初这样那样，究竟会发生什么？”到49岁时，我才发现，在所有事情里，我最感兴趣的莫过于去发现是什么令人们动起来，人们何以这样思考，他们何以这样行动。然后我发现，音乐是一种了不起的方式，可以用来研究人们行为背后的原因。
I don’t know if a lot of people think of music as a vehicle for understanding human behavior.
会有很多人把音乐当做理解人类行为的工具吗？我不觉得。
I’ve come to think of music in a way that’s a little clearer now. I would say the sound part of it, what you hear, the measurable part of the sound, is equivalent to the tip of an iceberg, less than 10 percent of the whole mass. So what’s below the surface is actually what is the music, what’s above is just the sound. I think about what is behind Bob Dylan’s voice. What is infusing my Goat Rodeo Sessions band mate Chris Thile’s sound, what is going on in his brain when he plays the mandolin? You can analyze the music and replicate it but you’re not really getting to Chris Thile until you understand what his worldview is, what motivates him to be open to everything around him, to be obsessive about slight differences in the taste of coffee.
如今我开始以一种更清晰的方式思考音乐。我想说，音乐中的声音部分——就是你所听到的那部分、可以感知到的部分——就像冰山露出水面的山峰，只占巨大整体的10%。表面之下的才是真正的音乐，浮现在上面的只是声音。我思考过鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)声音之下掩藏的东西。克里斯·泰尔(Chris Thile)是我在“圈羊四重奏”(Goat Rodeo Sessions)的合作伙伴，他的声音中融入了什么？当他弹奏曼陀铃时，心里在想些什么？这种音乐可以解析，可以复制；但是克里斯·泰尔的世界观是什么，是什么驱使着他对身边的一切保持开放态度，他又为什么如此沉迷地品味着咖啡的每一丝细微差别？只有了解了这些，才能真正了解泰尔的音乐。
How often to you practice, and for how long?
你多久练一次琴，每次练多久？
Mastering music is more than learning technical skills. Practicing is about quality, not quantity. Some days I practice for hours; other days it will be just a few minutes. Practicing is not only playing your instrument, either by yourself or rehearsing with others — it also includes imagining yourself practicing. Your brain forms the same neural connections and muscle memory whether you are imagining the task or actually doing it.
掌握音乐更像是学习一门技术。练琴重在质量，而不是数量。有时候我一练就是好几个小时，有时候也许只拉几分钟。练琴不仅仅是在演奏乐器，自己练琴或者和别人一起排练都是这个道理，想像自己在练琴也是练习的一部分。不管是想像自己在练琴，还是真的在练琴，大脑都会建立起同样的神经联系和肌肉记忆。
Have you experienced any of the physical problems that often plague musicians, like tendinitis or back pain?
你有没有那些经常困扰乐手们的健康问题，比如肌腱炎或者背痛之类的？
I think all musicians have at one time or another experienced one physical problem or another. I have had tendinitis a couple of times, so I try to be really careful. It takes patience and persistence to overcome injury. Musicians often forget they are athletes and that it’s important to stretch before and after practicing or performing.
我想所有乐手都会在某个时期遇上这样那样的健康问题。我得过几次肌腱炎，所以我都尽量小心。战胜伤病需要耐心和毅力。乐手们经常忘记他们也是运动员，在练习和演出之前做做伸展运动是很重要的。
You’ve spoken about the perils of the child prodigy syndrome, saying that what you do when you’re young creates your emotional bank account and that you’ll be drawing from it the rest of your life, so be sure the stuff you put in there counts.
你曾经谈起过“神童综合症”的危险性，你说过年轻时所做的事情是在为“情感账户”做储蓄，余生都要从这个账户里提款，所以一定要往这个账户里放东西。
I think when I was growing up I was dealing with a number of realities. The primary one involved being an immigrant. I moved from France to the United States when I was 7, and I had Chinese parents, which meant that I had three sets of divergent points of view broadcasting in my ears. It was very confusing. I needed to use my imagination to fill the gaps.
成长期间我要处理很多现实问题。最早的问题就是处理移民身份。我7岁那年从法国搬到美国，我的父母都是中国人，也就是说我要接受三种不同的观念。这非常令人困惑。我得动用想像力来弥补鸿沟。
Do you feel that, because you trained so rigorously throughout your youth, you missed out on other important parts of life?
你会不会觉得年轻时接受的严格训练令你错过了生命中其他重要的东西？
I always feel I miss out on things. That’s part of living. And the idea that you’re missing out on things can be used as fuel for developing what I call a disciplined imagination. I would be a terrible musician if I couldn’t put myself in the mind of a composer who lived in a different time, a different place. I would be the worst musician if I can’t somehow project my imagination into someone else’s mind. I often say that to be a classical musician is to be a forensic cultural analyst.
我总是觉得自己错过了某些东西。这是生活的一部分。而错过了某些东西的想法可以用来激励我所谓的“受训练的想像力”。我可以想像自己是一个生活在其他时代、其他地点的作曲家，假如没有这种能力，我会成为一个糟糕的乐手。假如不能把我的想像力投射到其他人心中去，那么我将是个最糟糕的乐手。我总是说古典音乐家是法医般的文化分析者。
Twenty-five years ago could you have imagined that you would win a Grammy for best folk album?
25年前，你是否想过自己会获得格莱美最佳民谣专辑奖？
Probably not. But I don’t like to think in categories. To really learn you have to take away the categories. And maybe part of growing older is I’m slightly more self-aware, in the sense that I know some things that I’m good at and other things I’m not really good at, and I can accept that.
大概没有吧。但我不喜欢给音乐分门别类。只有丢开门类的概念才能真正地学习。随着年龄增长我或许变得更自觉了一些，了解到自己更擅长什么，不擅长什么，并且可以接受这一点。
What are you not good at?
那么你不擅长什么呢？
I’m not good at systems. I’m not great but I’ve become better at process. I think in shapes and in movement and images much more than in sound. I’m not an instrument freak.
我不擅长体系。我并不伟大，但我会渐渐进步。我的思维方式主要是形状、动作和图像，而不是声音。另外我并不是乐器狂。
What would you like to accomplish that you haven’t yet?
你还有什么未竟的成就渴望去完成吗？
Oh, boy. I’m interested in pushing for the role of culture to have an equal place at the table of politics and economics. Is that an achievable goal? I don’t even know whether you can measure that. I think we would have a much happier, more fruitful and productive society if that were true.
天哪。我热衷提升文化的地位，使它能与政治和经济平起平坐。这个目标能实现吗？我甚至不知道你能不能衡量它。我觉得如果这个目标能够实现，人们就能过上更快乐、更美好、更有创造力的生活。
Your role as an arts and culture advocate seems to be growing. Is it as much a part of your day’s work and life’s work as playing the cello?
你在艺术与文化宣传方面所做的工作似乎越来越多。作为一个大提琴手，这也算作是你日常工作和毕生工作的一部分吗?
It’s what I think about all the time, whether I’m playing Goat Rodeo Sessions or Silk Road or Bach or Beethoven. I never worry that, ugh, I’m playing this piece again, I’m playing this town again. I’m so much more involved in why I do it, why live music or being present with a group of people to share something you really believe in is important.
不管是在“圈羊四重奏”、“丝绸之路计划”还是演奏巴赫或者贝多芬的时候，我一直都在思考这个问题。我从来不去操心，啊，我是否可以重新演奏这个曲目，我是否可以再来这座城市演出。我更关注自己为什么做这件事，为什么现场音乐演奏，或者和一群人一起合作，分享某些东西让你真心觉得如此重要。
Ageism is rampant in our culture. What about in classical music?
对老年人的歧视在我们的文化中十分盛行，那在古典音乐界呢？
I remember growing up and people saying you can’t play the Beethoven Violin Concerto until you’re 40 because you’re just not ready to do it.
我记得成长期间，有人说不到40岁就拉不好贝多芬的小提琴协奏曲，因为你的阅历还不够。
So there’s reverse ageism?
所以古典音乐界是反向的年龄歧视？
Then Yehudi Menuhin came along and played it at 12, and Pinchas Zukerman at age 19, and they gave the lie to that saying.
后来耶胡迪·梅纽因(Yehudi Menuhin)12岁就拉了贝多芬，皮恩卡斯·祖克曼(Pinchas Zukerman)19岁也做到了。他们破除了这个谎言。
Are you a better musician now than you’ve ever been?
作为音乐家，你比过去有了进步吗？
I’d like to think so.
我愿意这样想。
Are some things harder?
有没有什么事变得困难了呢？
Sure. The members of the Silk Road Ensemble, they’re 20 years or more younger, and if we’re on tour I can’t stay up as late. I can’t sleep on the bus the way they can. If I do a couple of short nights in a row, my body will pay the price.
当然。“丝绸之路”乐团的成员们有20多岁的，还有更年轻的，巡演时我不能熬夜。我可不能像他们那样在大巴上睡觉。连续缺觉几天，我的身体就会吃不消。
Are there pieces you played when you were younger that you no longer play, and if so why?
有没有什么你年轻时演奏的曲目，现在不演了，如果有的话，那又是为什么？
Yes, but not for physical reasons. Concert repertoire has changed over the years, so there are fewer opportunities to perform some pieces.
有，不过不是因为身体原因。音乐会的曲目多年来一直都在变，所以有些曲子就没什么机会再拉了。
While classical musicians tend to have long careers, even the greats start to lose something: rhythmic precision, intonation, bow control. Have you experienced these sorts of losses?
古典音乐家的事业生涯一般都很长，就算伟大的音乐家到后来也会失去一些东西：节奏准确性、音准、对琴弓的控制。你有这样的经历吗。
I think every musician worries about these things, and more so with age. I’ve been fortunate so far.
我想所有音乐家都担心过这种事，年纪愈大就越担心。我迄今还算幸运。
Does fame make it harder to connect with people and fellow musicians?
名声有没有阻碍你和人们以及同行乐手们的交流？
No, not at all.
没有，完全没有。
Is the gratification you get from music different at 57 than it was at 27?
你今年57岁，和27岁时相比，音乐带给你的快乐有什么不一样吗？
When you’re in your 20s you want to do it all yourself, and the great thing about being in my 50s is I’m super aware of one if not two generations of people that are younger, and their concepts of the world, the future, language, thinking patterns, are all very different from mine. I’m still really curious and I still love to perform and get my hands dirty, but I get such a huge thrill, maybe even a greater thrill, from seeing other, younger people doing things. So the sense of joy or satisfaction has expanded.
20多岁的时候，你想做的事都和自己有关。到了50多岁，最棒的一件事就是，我非常清楚比我年轻一两代的人，他们对世界和未来的看法，乃至语言和思维方式都和我这一代非常不同。我仍然好奇，热爱表演，喜欢参与，但是看到其他人，看到年轻人做事情会令我非常激动，甚至是更激动。所以我的幸福感和满足感就扩展了。
What, if anything, would make you think about retirement?
有没有什么事会让你萌生退休的想法呢？
I’m not sure. Some days the complications — travel difficulties, fund-raising, visa issues — can seem a little daunting, but playing the cello is what I wanted to do with my life. All the things I love about life outside music have to do with people, and playing the cello allows me to fulfill all those interests through music.
我不确定。有时候那些复杂的事情让人气馁——旅行的不便、筹款、护照问题。但拉大提琴是我希望能一生从事的事业。在音乐之外我所热爱的一切都和其他人有关，拉大提琴让我可以满足对音乐的所有兴趣。
Do you regret choices you’ve made?
你是否曾为自己的任何选择感到后悔？
I remember 20 years of having unbelievable children at home and falling asleep reading stories to them. I remember being impatient with my family members because I was so tired and stressed out. If I were to do it over again I would seriously look at the quality of decisions made during those years.
我那些可爱的孩子们在家里前后住了20年，我记得自己常常给他们读故事读到一半就睡着了。我还曾经因为疲惫和压力，对家人们不够耐心。如果能够重来，我会认真审视自己这些年来所做的选择。