Ma Yansong, 40, has become one of China’s best-known architects. His curvilinear, free-form and futuristic designs are often compared to those of his mentor, Zaha Hadid, who died on March 31 at 65. Mr. Ma says his greatest inspiration is nature; his recently completed opera house in the northern Chinese city of Harbin resembles a snow-capped mountain, while his master plan for the city of Nanjing calls for sloping buildings covered with vertical louvers that look like waterfalls. While Mr. Ma’s firm, MAD, continues to land splashy projects in China, he is also expanding in the United States. He will soon open MAD’s second American office, after Los Angeles, in New York, and now has three stateside projects underway: a high-rise in Manhattan; an apartment and retail complex in Beverly Hills, Calif.; and George Lucas’s provocative museum project in Chicago, a tent-like design that has gotten mixed reviews — one local politician compared it to a “palace for Jabba the Hutt.” In this edited interview, Mr. Ma talks about how he deals with such criticism, how traditional Eastern values inform his perspective and what he thinks about China’s ban on “weird” architecture.
今年40岁马岩松已经是中国最知名的建筑师之一。他的设计善用曲线，形式自由，具有未来主义风格，常常被人与扎哈·哈迪德(Zaha Hadid)的作品做类比；哈迪德是他的导师，今年3月31日过世，享年65岁。马岩松说，其最大的灵感来自大自然；他最近在中国北方城市哈尔滨完成了一座歌剧院，就像一座白雪皑皑的山，而在他给南京做的城市总体规划中，倾斜的建筑物悬挂着垂直的百叶窗，犹如瀑布一般。马岩松的公司MAD一边继续在中国开展引人瞩目的项目，同时也正在美国拓展业务。继洛杉矶办事处之后，美国MAD的第二家办事处很快就会在纽约开业，目前他已经有3个美国本土项目正在进行：曼哈顿的一座高楼；加利福尼亚州比佛利山庄的一座公寓和零售综合体；以及乔治·卢卡斯(George Lucas)在芝加哥的一个前卫博物馆项目，其帐篷状的设计获得了褒贬不一的评价——一名当地政界人士说它是“赫特人贾巴(Jabba the Hutt)的宫殿”。在采访中，马岩松谈到了自己如何应对这样的批评，东方传统价值观如何贯穿他的视野，以及他对中国禁止“求怪”建筑的看法。以下内容经过编辑。
Q. You had a close relationship with Zaha Hadid. How did she influence your career?
问：你曾与扎哈·哈迪德关系密切。她对你的职业生涯有怎样的影响？
A. She was my mentor when I went to graduate school at Yale. My English wasn’t good then, so we didn’t talk much. Sometimes we just looked at each other and she was able to tell me things almost just by looking. She advised my thesis project. That turned into this broad conversation about architecture that got into humanity and nature and art. She brought me art books and introduced me to people like Anish Kapoor and Olafur Eliasson. Architecture really was art for her — a tool to communicate with people on an emotional level. Either you love it or you hate it. I really believe in that.
答：我在耶鲁大学读研究生的时候，她是我的导师。当时我的英语不太好，所以我们不怎么说话。有时候，我们只是看着对方，她几乎只用注视就可以告诉我一些东西。她给我的论文项目提供了建议。那变成了关于建筑的广泛对话，深入到人与自然和艺术。她给了我一些艺术书籍，把我介绍给阿尼施·卡普尔(Anish Kapoor)和奥拉维尔·埃利亚松(Olafur Eliasson)等人认识。建筑对她来说就是艺术——是在情感层面与人交流的工具。你要么爱它，要么恨它。我真的相信这一点。
When did you realize you wanted to be an architect?
你什么时候发现自己想成为一名建筑师的？
When I graduated from high school I thought I wanted to make science fiction movies, so I applied to film school but I couldn’t get in. A professor told me I should try architecture instead. I found a book about famous architects, and I was fascinated because there were so many different architectural styles. They were all great, and they all co-existed in our world. There wasn’t really a right or wrong.
高中毕业的时候，我想拍科幻电影，所以就报考了电影学院，但没被录取。一位教授对我说，我应该试试学建筑。我找到了一本关于著名建筑师的书，很着迷，因为有那么多不同的建筑风格。它们都很精彩，在这个世界中共存。并不存在真正的对错之分。
One of your most significant projects so far is the opera house in Harbin, which one critic said looked like “a snow dune, blending the artificial with the natural.” How quickly did the design come to you?
迄今为止你最著名的建筑之一是哈尔滨歌剧院，有一位评论家说，它看起来像“雪丘，融合了人工与自然元素”。形成这个设计花了多长时间？
The beauty of architecture is it involves work that stretches over a very long time but often starts in one instant, with just one emotion, a kind of instinctual response. I did the sketch very quickly, before I even landed in Harbin. I was on the airplane, and I saw the wavy river, the wetlands, the whole site from the sky, and I was thinking I should do something that blends into this beautiful landscape. So the first day I already had the concept. And then we spent maybe two years to realize it, and then another four years for construction.
建筑之美，在于它需要很长一段时间的工作，但往往是在一瞬间，因一种情绪，一种本能反应而发芽的。我很快就画出了草图，当时飞机还没有在哈尔滨降落。在飞机上，我看到了涌动的河流，看到了湿地，从空中看到整个地貌，我想，我应该设计一座能融合到这种美丽风景中的建筑。所以，第一天我就已经有了这个概念。然后，我们花了两年的时间实现它，然后建造用了四年时间。
What are some of the ideas behind the design?
这个设计背后的理念是什么呢？
In the winter, they have very heavy snow in Harbin, and so we made the building white, so it almost becomes like a mountain, an extension of nature. I didn’t want the building to feel isolated from the environment. The site is a major wetland. People come there to enjoy nature. So I designed the façade so that you can walk onto the building via a ramp and reach the rooftop where you can look at the overall landscape. You don’t have to have opera tickets to interact with the building.
哈尔滨到了冬季会下很大的雪，所以我们把建筑物设计为白色，看上去像一座山，是自然的一种延伸。我不想这座大楼给人以一种与环境格格不入的感觉。那里是一个重要的湿地。人们到那里去享受大自然。所以我设计成这样的外形，游客可以经过一道斜坡走上去，到达天台，欣赏当地的全貌。你不需要歌剧门票，就可以与这座建筑互动。
You’ve said you want to bring an Asian perspective to contemporary architecture. How do you do that?
你说想把亚洲的视角引入当代建筑。你是怎么做的？
I think modern architecture and industrial civilization treat buildings as if they’re products, as if buildings and nature are two separate entities. But when you look at traditional Eastern cultures, they talk about nature in very different ways. In a traditional Japanese or Chinese garden, it’s not only about the building or temple but about the whole setup — the structure, the landscape, the light, the plants, the water. The whole experience that makes your life there so beautiful. That’s what we need now. We talk about function and economics too much. The building becomes too limited.
我觉得，当代建筑和工业文明把建筑物视为一种产品，就好像建筑与自然是两个独立的东西。但是，传统的东方文化对自然有一种非常不同的理解。在传统的日本或中国园林中，它不单单是一座建筑、一座寺庙，而是一个整体——结构、景观、光、植物、水。这是让你在那里感觉如此美妙的整体体验。也正是我们目前所需要的东西。我们在功能和经济上讲得太多。建筑变得太局限了。
Many of the details of the Lucas Museum are still under wraps, but some people criticized the design when it was unveiled. How do you deal with harsh reactions like that?
卢卡斯博物馆的很多细节仍处于保密状态，但它公布的时候遭到了一些人的批评。你如何应对这样差评？
I think new architecture has to face controversy. It’s a good thing. I interned in Chicago in 2000 and I loved the city. I feel so lucky to design something in this city and to have this conversation with the old masters. I feel positive that when we build the museum and people go there they will love the building, but it’s a process for people to understand and sometimes it’s hard for them to accept the idea from just a few renderings.
我认为，新的建筑必须直面争议。这是一件好事。我2000年时曾在芝加哥实习，很喜欢这座城市。我觉得自己很幸运，能在这个城市设计东西，能与老一辈大师进行这样的对话。我相信，当我们修好这座博物馆，人们看到它之后，就会喜欢它。但理解是有一个过程的，有时很难仅仅通过几幅渲染图就让人接受一个理念。
While China is in the midst of a huge building boom, the government recently banned outlandish, or “bizarre,” architectural statements. Do you think that was a good idea?
尽管中国正处在一股建设热潮中，但政府最近出台了禁止建筑“求怪”的规定。您是否认为这是一个好主意？
Yes, I see it as a positive statement. Some people think this will stop innovation or creativity. But I don’t think so. In China, we had some buildings that looked like the White House or wine bottles. All they seemed to represent was bad taste.
是的，我认为这是一种积极的态度。一些人认为这样会阻碍创新或创造力。但我不这么认为。在中国，我们有些建筑看起来像白宫或酒瓶。它们代表着糟糕的品味。