FIVE hundred years ago, on Dec. 10, 1513, Niccolò Machiavelli sent a letter to his friend Francesco Vettori, describing his day spent haggling with local farmers and setting bird traps for his evening meal. A typical day for the atypical letter writer, who had changed from his mud-splattered clothes to the robes he once wore as a high official in the Florentine republic.
500年前，在1513年12月10日，尼科洛·马基雅维利(Niccolo Machiavelli)给他的朋友弗朗切斯科·韦托里(Francesco Vettori)写了一封信。信中讲述了他一天的生活：与当地的农民讨价还价，为了晚餐而安置捕鸟陷阱。对于这位不一般的写信者来说，这是他最普通的一天。在写信之前，他已脱去沾满泥土的衣服，换上佛罗伦萨共和国高官的长袍。
Toward the end of the letter Machiavelli mentions for the first time a “little work” he was writing on politics. This little work was, of course, “The Prince.”
在信的结尾，马基雅维利第一次提到了他正在编写的关于政治的“小册子”。当然，这个小册子就是《君主论》(The Prince)。
One of the remarkable things about “The Prince” is not just what Machiavelli wrote, but that he was able to write at all. Just 10 months earlier, he endured the “strappado”: Hands tied behind his back, he was strung to a prison ceiling and repeatedly plunged to the floor.
关于《君主论》，最引人注目的不光是马基雅维利写了什么，而是他居然能够写东西。就在10个月之前，他遭受了“吊坠刑”：双手绑在背后，身体被吊在监狱的天花板上，反复坠向地面。
Having at the time just been given the task of overseeing the foreign policy and defense of his native city, he was thrown out of his office when the Medici family returned to power. The new rulers suspected him of plotting against them and wanted to hear what he had to say. Machiavelli prided himself on not uttering a word.
在得到管理城邦的外交政策和防务的任务之后不久，重新掌权的美第奇家族撤了他的职。新的统治者怀疑他密谋造反，于是对他严刑拷问。马基雅维利对自己一个字也没说感到非常骄傲。
He may well have saved his words for “The Prince,” dedicated to a member of the family who ordered his torture: Lorenzo de Medici. With the book, Machiavelli sought to persuade Lorenzo that he was a friend whose experience in politics and knowledge of the ancients made him an invaluable adviser.
他可能是把想说的话写进了《君主论》吧。《君主论》是他写给这个家族的成员洛伦佐·德·美第奇(Lorenzo de Medici)的一本书，而正是洛伦佐下令拷打了他。马基雅维利想要通过这本书告诉洛伦佐，自己是他的朋友，凭借政治经验和博古通今的学识，自己可以成为一名不可多得的顾问。
History does not tell us if Lorenzo bothered to read the book. But if he did, he would have learned from his would-be friend that there are, in fact, no friends in politics.
历史没有告诉我们洛伦佐是否读了这本书。但是如果他读了，他会从这个想要成为其朋友的人那里知道，事实上，政治中没有朋友这回事。
“The Prince” is a manual for those who wish to win and keep power. The Renaissance was awash in such how-to guides, but Machiavelli’s was different. To be sure, he counsels a prince on how to act toward his enemies, using force and fraud in war. But his true novelty resides in how we should think about our friends. It is at the book’s heart, in the chapter devoted to this issue, that Machiavelli proclaims his originality.
《君主论》是一本为那些渴望胜利和维护权力的人们编写的手册。文艺复兴时期不乏类似的指南，但是马基雅维利的书有所不同。毫无疑问，他为一位统治者提供了如何对付敌人的建议，包括在战争中使用武力和诈术。但是他真正的创新之处在于，我们应该如何看待朋友。在专门探讨该问题的这本书的核心章节中，马基雅维利展示了他的原创观点。
Set aside what you would like to imagine about politics, Machiavelli writes, and instead go straight to the truth of how things really work, or what he calls the “effectual truth.” You will see that allies in politics, whether at home or abroad, are not friends.
马基雅维利写道，抛开你对政治的想象不谈，直接奔向事情如何运作的真相，即他所谓的“有效真相”。你会看到，政治中的盟友与朋友是两码事，无论是国内还是国外。
Perhaps others had been deluded about the distinction because the same word in Italian — “amici” — is used for both concepts. Whoever imagines allies are friends, Machiavelli warns, ensures his ruin rather than his preservation.
也许其他人之所以混淆了这两者的区别，是因为意大利语用同一个词来表达这两个概念，即amici。马基雅维利警告说，无论是谁，如果把盟友想象成了朋友，都注定了是在自取灭亡而不是在保护自己。
There may be no students more in need of this insight, yet less likely to accept it, than contemporary Americans, both in and outside the government. Like the political moralizers Machiavelli aims to subvert, we still believe a leader should be virtuous: generous and merciful, honest and faithful.
或许最需要这种见地，也最不可能接受它的，莫过于当代美国人，政府内外皆然。正如马基雅维利意图颠覆的政治说教者一样，我们仍然认为，领导人应当品德高尚：慷慨仁慈、诚实守信。
Yet Machiavelli teaches that in a world where so many are not good, you must learn to be able to not be good. The virtues taught in our secular and religious schools are incompatible with the virtues one must practice to safeguard those same institutions. The power of the lion and the cleverness of the fox: These are the qualities a leader must harness to preserve the republic.
然而，马基雅维利教导我们，在一个太多人作恶的世界里，必须学会能够不当好人。我们的世俗和宗教学校里传授的种种美德，与我们为了捍卫同样的这些机构所必须研习的操行并不匹配。狮子的力量与狐狸的机敏：这是领导人为了维护共和国所必须利用的品行。
For such a leader, allies are friends when it is in their interest to be. (We can, with difficulty, accept this lesson when embodied by a Charles de Gaulle; we have even greater difficulty when it is taught by, say, Hamid Karzai.) What’s more, Machiavelli says, leaders must at times inspire fear not only in their foes but even in their allies — and even in their own ministers.
对这样一名领导人而言，符合利益的时候，盟友才是朋友。（具体到夏尔·戴高乐[Charles de Gaulle]身上，我们可以勉强接受这一点；如果是哈米德·卡尔扎伊[Hamid Karzai]等人，难度就更大了。）马基雅维利还进一步阐述，领导人必须不时激起恐惧，不仅针对敌人，还应包括盟友，乃至自己手下的部长。
What would Machiavelli have thought when President Obama apologized for the fiasco of his health care rollout? Far from earning respect, he would say, all he received was contempt. As one of Machiavelli’s favorite exemplars, Cesare Borgia, grasped, heads must sometimes roll. (Though in Borgia’s case, he meant it quite literally, though he preferred slicing bodies in half and leaving them in a public square.)
对奥巴马总统就医保的惨淡首秀进行的道歉，马基雅维利会怎么看？他会说，他绝不会赢得尊重，而只能遭到蔑视。正如马基雅维利青睐的典范之一切萨雷·波吉亚(Cesare Borgia)理解的那样，有时必须人头落地。（不过在波吉亚那里，他理解的就是字面意思，尽管他更喜欢在广场上把人剁成两半，弃之不管。）
Machiavelli has long been called a teacher of evil. But the author of “The Prince” never urged evil for evil’s sake. The proper aim of a leader is to maintain his state (and, not incidentally, his job). Politics is an arena where following virtue often leads to the ruin of a state, whereas pursuing what appears to be vice results in security and well-being. In short, there are never easy choices, and prudence consists of knowing how to recognize the qualities of the hard decisions you face and choosing the less bad as what is the most good.
长期以来，马基雅维利都被称为邪恶之师。但是，《君主论》的作者从未呼吁为了邪恶而邪恶。领导人的正确目标是维持政权（当然，首先要保住自己的位子）。政治是个竞技场，遵循美德只会走向政权的覆灭，而追求貌似不好的东西反而会带来安康。简而言之，从来就没有什么简单的选择，而谨慎决策的意思是，知道如何甄别自己面临的艰难抉择的实质，然后矬子里拔将军。
Those of us who see the world, if not in Manichaean, at least in Hollywoodian terms, will recoil at such claims. Perhaps we are right to do so, but we would be wrong to dismiss them out of hand. If Machiavelli’s teaching concerning friends and allies in politics is deeply disconcerting, it is because it goes to the bone of our religious convictions and moral conventions. This explains why he remains as reviled, but also as revered, today as he was in his own age.
面对这样的说法，我们当中那些世界观就算不是黑白对立，也至少是好莱坞式的人们会望而却步。或许我们这样做是正确的，但不由分说地一概加以否定也是错误的。如果说，马基雅维利关于政治中的朋友和盟友的教导令人深感不安，那是因为它触及了我们的宗教信仰与道德规范的骨髓。这解释了，他为何一直被诋毁，却也一直被敬仰，无论是在他的时代，还是在今天。