PARIS—The fashion designer Marc Jacobs is leaving Louis Vuitton after 16 years to concentrate on his namesake line, according to Bernard Arnault, the chairman and chief executive of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, which has a majority stake in Mr. Jacobs’s company.
巴黎——路威酩轩(LVMH)集团的主席、首席执行官贝尔纳·阿尔诺(Bernard Arnault)称，时装设计师马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)在为LV服务16年之后将离开这里，专注于自己的同名时装品牌。路威酩轩集团拥有雅可布公司的多数股权。
“When we started together, Marc Jacobs was a tiny little business of around $20 million,” Mr. Arnault said in an interview Wednesday. “Now the totality of sales is approaching $1 billion. It has been an enormous growth.”
“我们一开始合作时，马克·雅可布只是一个2000万美元左右的小公司，”阿尔诺周三在接受采访时说，“现在它的总销售额已接近10亿美元。这是个巨大的增长。”
“We left it to Marc and to Robert Duffy to decide when they wanted to concentrate on the brand,” he continued, referring to Mr. Jacobs’s business partner. “Now we have come to an agreement and the object is to assist them with an introduction on the bourse.” Mr. Arnault confirmed that the Marc Jacobs brand was working on an initial public offering.
“当马克和罗伯特·达菲(Robert Duffy)想要专注于自己的品牌时，我们让他们自己做决定，”他继续说道。达菲是雅可布的商业伙伴。“现在我们已经取得了一致意见，目标是协助他们以介绍形式在交易所上市。”阿尔诺证实马克·雅可布品牌正在为首次公募做准备。
And so, even as it loses its chief designer, LVMH will be poised to benefit from sharing in that potential billion-dollar payoff from Mr. Jacobs’s stock offering.
雅可布先生发行股票有可能获得10亿美元的收益，因此，即使路威酩轩集团失去它的首席设计师，它仍有望从持有雅克布先生的股份中获益。
The events at LVMH are taking place in a moment of turmoil in the luxury industry, as groups have been solidifying their positions and designers have become commodities, bought by the highest bidder. Even fledgling designers are being brought into the luxury fold, with LVMH in a constant skirmish with its main rival, Kering, formerly PPR.
路威酩轩的这些变动发生在奢侈品行业混战的时刻，各大集团正在巩固自己的地位，设计师们变成了商品，由出价最高的集团买走。甚至连初露头角的设计师也被拉入奢侈品集团的队伍之中，卷入路威酩轩和它的主要对手开云集团（Kering，其前身是巴黎春天集团）持续不断的小规模竞争。
In fact, Mr. Jacobs, 50, is a rare designer who has succeeded not only as creative director at Vuitton, but also in building his own brand with fashion lines at multiple price points and marketing that has been embraced by Hollywood and pop culture. John Galliano, the former designer at Christian Dior, before he was disgraced by a racist slur, never managed to give his own label major resonance, and it was viewed as what the French call a “danseuse,” or plaything.
实际上，50岁的雅可布是个罕见的设计师，他不仅成功担任LV的创意总监，而且成功地把自己的品牌打造成拥有多种价位和市场定位的品牌，被好莱坞和流行文化所接受。而迪奥的前任设计师约翰·加利亚诺(John Galliano)在因种族歧视言论而名誉扫地之前，从未能够让自己的品牌引起强烈的反响，他自己的品牌被看做是法国人所说的“芭蕾舞女演员”，或者说玩物。
Michael Burke, the chairman and chief executive of Vuitton, said the typical model was still to have a designer at a major house, with his or her own brand seen as a “stepchild.”
LV的主席、首席执行官迈克尔·伯克(Michael Burke)说，常见的模式仍是在一个大型时装公司担任设计师，把自己的品牌当成“继子”。
“Marc and Robert’s company deserves to be much more than a stepchild — that is the conclusion that we have all come to recently,” Mr. Burke said. “It will be more stabilizing for Marc because he has his name above the door.”
“马克和罗伯特的公司值得拥有比继子更高的地位——这是我们最近都同意的结论，”伯克说。“对马克来说它将更稳定，因为公司大门上有他自己的名字。”
Mr. Jacobs confirmed his departure backstage at the Louis Vuitton spring 2014 show in Paris. His notes in the program ended with the words: “For Robert Duffy and Bernard Arnault, All my love, Always.”
雅可布在LV 2014春季巴黎时装秀的后台确认了他要离开的决定。他在节目单的最后写道：“献给罗伯特·达菲和贝尔纳·阿尔诺以及所有我爱的人，永远。”
Although rumors have circulated that LVMH has had difficulties with the designer’s sometimes erratic behavior, Mr. Arnault praised the outgoing designer, saying, “I am very eager to congratulate him and his team for everything they have done for Louis Vuitton.”
虽然有谣言说路威酩轩有点不能接受这位设计师有时让人意外的行为，但是阿尔诺赞扬了这位即将离职的设计师。他说“我非常渴望祝贺他和他的团队为LV做的一切”。
The mood at the show, however, was wistful. It was intensely black and had many elements — a carousel, a grand hotel elevator and twin escalators — that had been stage sets at previous Vuitton shows.
但是，这场时装秀的气氛是依依不舍。它的色调很黑，有很多元素——旋转木马、巨大的酒店电梯和一对扶梯——这些都曾是LV时装秀的布景。
“It’s like a funeral,” said Edward Enninful, the fashion and style director of W magazine, as he entered the show.
《W》杂志的时装和造型总监爱德华·艾宁弗(Edward Enninful)说他走进秀场时，感觉“它像个葬礼”。
And the showgirl clothes, with their giant Folies Bergère feather headdresses and jet-embroidered chiffon, gave the impression that the party performance was over, not least because bluejeans were often worn as a counterpart to the finery.
模特们头戴女神游乐厅(Folies Bergère)风格的巨大羽毛头饰，身穿黑色刺绣雪纺绸，给人的印象是派对表演结束了，尤其是因为蓝色牛仔裤通常被认为是华丽服饰的对立面。
At the start of the show, which received a standing ovation, the graffiti lettering on hose harked back to the work of Stephen Sprouse in 2000, one of the early art collaborations with Mr. Jacobs. But this time around, accessories and especially the 16 small and unremarkable Louis Vuitton purses did not steal the show.
在时装秀的开场，观众们长时间起立鼓掌，长统袜上的涂鸦字母让人想起了2000年史蒂芬·斯普劳斯(Stephen Sprouse)的作品，那是他和雅可布早期合作的艺术作品之一。但是这一次，配饰——特别是那16个不起眼的LV小手包——没有抢走时装秀的风头。
A jumpsuit with graffiti reading “I Love Paris” was part of the “goodbye” show. “It was an ode to Paris and to all the people I have been involved and work with. This city has been so great,” said Mr. Jacobs, who is expected to return to his native New York, where his company is based.
一件涂鸦着“我爱巴黎”的连体衣是这场“告别”秀的一部分。“它是对巴黎以及所有和我有联系或一起工作过的人的颂歌。这座城市是如此精彩，”雅可布说。他将返回故乡纽约，那是他自己公司的所在地。
Now the attention shifts to who will take over at Louis Vuitton, which is the cash cow of the multibillion-dollar luxury group.
现在注意力转移到了谁将接手LV这个问题上，LV是这个价值几十亿美元的奢侈品集团的摇钱树。
An early favorite is Nicolas Ghesquière, formerly the designer for Balenciaga, owned by Kering. But Delphine Arnault, Mr. Arnault’s daughter and an executive vice president at Louis Vuitton, made a gesture at the Vuitton show to indicate that her lips were sealed.
开云集团下属的巴黎世家(Balenciaga)的前设计师尼古拉斯·盖斯奇埃尔(Nicolas Ghesquière)是最热门的人选。但是阿尔诺的女儿、LV的执行副总裁戴尔芬·阿尔诺(Delphine Arnault)在LV时装秀上的姿态表明她绝不会透露任何消息。
Later, Mr. Arnault said that he expected an announcement about a new designer by the end of October, and that he would have no problem if the new designer also had a personal fashion line. “Why not?” he said.
后来阿尔诺说他预计会在10月底宣布新设计师，如果新设计师也有自己的时装品牌，他不会介意。“为什么不可以有自己的品牌呢？”他说。
Last week, Reuters reported that Mr. Jacobs’s contract had not been resolved, though negotiations had begun in January, and noted the significance of that fact for a label that accounts for annual sales of nearly ¤7 billion, or $9.5 billion, and more than half of LVMH’s operating profit. Louis Vuitton’s growth, after years of annual gains of 10 percent or more, has slowed to 5 percent to 6 percent this year, while LVMH has not kept track with the broader European luxury sector, the Reuters report noted.
上周，路透社报道说，虽然协商从一月份就开始了，但是雅可布的合约还没有处理好。报道还特别提到LV的年销售额近95亿美元，占路威酩轩集团运营收益的半数以上。多年来，路威酩轩的年收益增长一直保持在10%或以上，但是今年的增长降至5%至6%，落后于欧洲奢侈品的总体行情。
Also last week, Vuitton announced that it had hired Darren Spaziani, most recently the director of accessories at Proenza Schouler in New York, to develop a higher-end collection of accessories. Mr. Spaziani previously worked with Mr. Jacobs at Louis Vuitton and Mr. Ghesquière at Balenciaga, prompting further speculation that a bigger change in creative direction was in the works.
也是在上周，LV宣布雇佣达伦·斯帕奇亚尼(Darren Spaziani)开发高端配饰。斯帕奇亚尼最近是在纽约担任普罗恩萨·施罗(Proenza Schouler)的配饰总监，之前曾与雅可布在LV合作过，与盖斯奇埃尔在巴黎世家合作过。这让人们进一步猜测创意方面的更大变动正在进行中。
Editors and retailers reacted positively to the news after the show.
时装秀结束后，编辑们和零售商们对这些新闻的反应都是正面的。
“Marc is absolutely significant to fashion,” said Ken Downing, the fashion director of Neiman Marcus. “But as we have seen at many other houses, designers have taken a hiatus or been replaced by other talents. It has been a Marc moment for many years here, but fashion is an industry of change. It is never the same day any day.”
“马克对时装业绝对意义重大，”内曼·马库斯(Neiman Marcus)百货公司的时装总监肯·道宁(Ken Downing)说，“但是我们看到过其他很多时装公司的设计师离开，被其他人才替代。这么多年来LV一直是马克时代，但是时装业是个充满变化的行业。每一天都不相同。”
Alexandra Shulman, the editor of British Vogue, noted the implication for Mr. Jacobs’s signature label, which recently expanded with a new line of cosmetics, in a post on the magazine’s Web site. “It’s important to know how to exit, as well as arrive, and it’s going to be exciting to see how this impacts on the creativity in his own line.”
《Vogue》英国版的编辑亚历山德拉·舒尔曼(Alexandra Shulman)在该杂志网站上发文指出此事对雅可布同名品牌的意义。该品牌最近开发了一个新的化妆品系列。“知道何时到来、何时退出很重要，我很期待看看这对他自己品牌的创造力将产生什么影响。”
Mr. Jacobs, after an ill-fated early career at Perry Ellis, started his signature company 20 years ago and joined Vuitton in 1997 at the beginning of a period of rapid growth in the luxury sector. The period also marked the beginning of intense competition between the two major luxury conglomerates, LVMH and Kering, as they acquired virtually every historic fashion brand in Europe, as well as some in America.
雅可布早期在派瑞·艾力斯(Perry Ellis)的事业不太顺利，20年前开创了同名品牌，1997年加入LV，当时奢侈品行业刚开始快速发展，两大奢侈品集团路威酩轩和开云也刚开始激烈竞争，它们实际上获得了欧洲所有历史悠久的著名时装品牌以及美国的一些品牌。
Mr. Jacobs’s tenure at Vuitton became one of the most successful examples of a revival of a historic French house, and also the longest-running, apart from Karl Lagerfeld at Chanel and Fendi, spawning what has become a standard business model to place contemporary designers at historic fashion labels. While Vuitton’s ready-to-wear has become a substantial business, its accessories have been the most important money makers for LVMH, including collaborations with Mr. Sprouse and the artists Takashi Murakami and Richard Prince.
雅可布在LV的任期成为历史悠久的法国时装公司复兴的最成功的例子之一，也是除了卡尔·拉格菲尔德(Karl Lagerfeld)在香奈儿(Chanel)和芬迪(Fendi)的任期之外最长的任期，让当代设计师入主历史悠久的时装品牌成为标准的行业模式。尽管LV成衣已经是一个很大的产业，但它的配饰是路威酩轩集团最重要的收入来源，并曾与斯普劳斯以及艺术家村上隆和理查德·普林斯(Richard Prince)合作。
The departure of Mr. Jacobs, who is also seen as a potential successor to Mr. Lagerfeld at Chanel, also comes during a Paris season that has been filled with great fashion moments and even greater intrigue. Executives on both sides have said privately over the past week that there had been tension between Mr. Jacobs and LVMH, with each side leaking details of their frustrations. But they ultimately reached an agreement that was in their mutual interests, they said.
雅可布被认为可能是香奈儿的拉格菲尔德的继承者。雅可布离开之时，巴黎时装界充满了很多重大事件、甚至充满了更大的阴谋。上周双方的执行官都私下里说过雅可布和路威酩轩之间关系紧张，双方都透露了让他们感到失望的细节。但是他们最终就共同利益达成了一致。
LVMH and Kering are once again investing in young designer labels at a rapid pace, with J.W. Anderson of London and the shoe designer Nicholas Kirkwood joining LVMH, and Joseph Altuzarra and Christopher Kane now linked up with Kering.
路威酩轩和开云再次快速在年轻设计师品牌上投资，伦敦的J·W·安德森(J.W. Anderson)和鞋子设计师尼可拉斯·科克伍德(Nicholas Kirkwood)加入了路威酩轩，约瑟夫·奥图扎拉(Joseph Altuzarra)和克里斯托弗·凯恩(Christopher Kane)现在和开云集团联系在一起。
With his longtime business partner Mr. Duffy, Mr. Jacobs has sought to develop the Marc Jacobs label and its lower-price collections. During similarly fraught contract negotiations a decade ago, the duo won significant commitments from LVMH to develop further the brand’s retail and design.
雅可布和他的长期商业伙伴达菲致力于开发马克·雅可布品牌及其较低价位的服装系列。十年前，在同样充满风险的合同协商过程中，这个二人组从路威酩轩集团获得了进一步开发该品牌的零售和设计的重大承诺。
The potential of a public offering, which would follow a major offering from Michael Kors two years ago, has been described as an opportunity for LVMH to divest its interest in the Marc Jacobs company, and for Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Duffy to invest further in the brand’s development. But for that to happen, executives on both sides said it was necessary for Mr. Jacobs to return full time to his own company.
马克·雅可布品牌将效仿两年前迈克高仕(Michael Kors)公司进行的公开募股，被视为是路威酩轩放弃在马克·雅可布公司利益的机会，以便于雅可布和达菲在该品牌的开发上进一步投资。但是要实现这一点，双方的执行官都说需要雅可布把全部精力放在自己的公司上。
The European luxury brand Moncler also intends to float shares in an I.P.O. later this year, said a person briefed on its plans.
据一位短暂参与相关计划的人说，欧洲奢侈品牌蒙克莱(Moncler)也打算在今年晚些时候进行首次公开募股。
Wall Street bankers said that driving much of the interest in high-fashion stock deals is the extraordinary success of Mr. Kors’s I.P.O. Shares of Michael Kors have tripled since its offering in December 2011, making it one of the most successful offerings in recent years. Mr. Kors has made hundreds of millions of dollars from taking his company public, and his private equity backers have made billions.
华尔街的银行家们说，自从迈克高仕2011年12月首次公开募股以来，该公司的股价已经翻了三倍，取得了巨大的成功，这是近年来最 成功的上市案例之一，让高级时装公司纷纷对此萌发了很大的兴趣。高仕先生通过公司上市赚了上亿美元，他的私募股权赞助商则赚了几十亿美元。
Like Mr. Jacobs, Mr. Kors started as a high-end designer but has grown his business by introducing lower-price collections while retaining a strong fashion brand.
和雅可布一样，高仕先生一开始是高档服装设计师，但是通过推出较低价位的服装将生意扩大，同时保持强劲的品牌形象。