KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — Malaysia’s defense minister announced on Wednesday evening that Airbus Defense and Space, Europe’s main commercial satellite company, had forwarded images taken on Sunday of 122 objects floating southwest of Australia and said that his country had asked Australia to check if they were debris from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
马来西亚吉隆坡——马来西亚国防部长于周三晚宣布，欧洲主要商用卫星公司欧洲航空防务及航天公司(Airbus Defense and Space)已经把周日在澳大利亚西南方向海域拍到的122件漂浮物的图像转交给该国，并说马来西亚已向澳大利亚提出请求，核查这些漂浮物是否是马航370航班的残骸。
While the objects might turn out to be unrelated to the missing aircraft, Defense Minister Hishammuddin Hussein said, “this is still the most credible lead that we have.”
虽然这些物体可能会与失踪飞机无关，但马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)说，“这仍是目前我们得到的最可信的线索。”
The objects are up to 75 feet, or 23 meters, in length, and are visible through gaps in clouds over an area of 154 square miles, or 400 square kilometers, he said. Some of the objects are bright, he noted without elaboration. Metal objects that had recently entered the ocean might be reflective.
他说，这些物体最长约23米，透过云层间的缝隙，可以看到它们分布在约400平方公里的区域内。其中一些物体很明亮，他指出，但没有对这一点做出进一步的阐述。近期内进入海里的金属物体可能会反光。
Malaysia forwarded the information to Australia on Wednesday afternoon, and it was unclear if the floating objects can be checked before dark or if an inspection may need to wait until Thursday, Mr. Hishammuddin said.
希沙姆丁说，马来西亚于周三下午将这一信息转交给了澳大利亚，还不清楚天黑前能否对这些漂浮物体进行核查，或者是否需要等到周四才能核查。
The Australian Maritime Safety Authority said in a statement that it had resumed search operations after a one-day halt for bad weather on Tuesday and that at least four aircraft were scheduled to be searching on Wednesday night.
澳大利亚海事安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)在一份声明中表示，搜索行动在周二因天气状况停止一天之后，已经重新开始，周三晚上将至少派出4架飞机进行搜索。
The floating objects are 1,589 miles, or 2,557 kilometers, southwest of Perth. If the debris turns out to be from the missing plane, the next step would be to figure out how far it might have drifted from where the aircraft might have splashed down, to begin an undersea search, Mr. Hishammuddin said.
这些漂浮物体位于距离珀斯西南2557公里的区域。如果这些漂浮物被证明是失踪飞机的碎片，下一步将要确定漂浮物从飞机可能坠落的位置大概漂浮了多远，然后进行水下搜索，希沙姆丁说。
The United States Navy has sent an undersea listening device and a sonar device. But each needs to be towed far underwater behind a ship traveling scarcely faster than a person walking on land.
美国海军(The United States Navy)已经运出一个水下监听装置和一个声呐装置。但这两种装置都需要拖在船的后面潜入深海工作，拖船的航行速度比人在陆地上步行的速度快不了多少。
The listening device could pick up signals from the plane’s data recorders before they stop transmitting pings in two to three weeks but needs to be towed within a mile of them for reliable detection. The sonar will work even after the data recorders go silent but needs to be even closer to detect wreckage on the seabed. Finding floating debris from the plane might help provide closure for the families and friends of the passengers and crew, but may prove of limited use in locating the data recorders, oceanographers cautioned. The debris could have drifted hundreds of miles in the 18 days since the plane disappeared, said Jianping Gan, an oceanographer at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology who has done research aboard a Chinese icebreaker in the waters around Antarctica.
监听装置可以接收到飞机的数据记录器发出的ping信号，再有2到3周，数据记录器将停止发送这种信号，因此监听装置只在那之前有用，而且为了获得可靠的信号，监听装置需要被船拖在距离数据记录器约1.6公里以内工作。即使数据记录器停止发送信号之后，仍可用声呐装置来寻找它们，但需要从更近的距离上来探测位于海底的残骸。找到漂浮的飞机碎片可能有助于乘客和机组成员的家属和朋友的善后工作，但对确定数据记录器位置的作用有限，海洋学家警告说。香港科技大学海洋学家甘剑平说，这些碎片可能已经在飞机失踪后的18天里漂浮了数百公里，他曾在南极洲附近水域的一艘中国破冰船上做过研究工作。
Jason Ali, an earth sciences professor at Hong Kong University who has studied currents in the Indian Ocean, said that “even if you’ve got floating material, if it has been floating for two and a half weeks, it’s not going to have much relation to the wreckage” on the seabed.
香港大学地球科学系教授杰森·阿里(Jason Ali)一直从事印度洋洋流的研究，他说，“即使你找到了漂浮物体，如果物体已经漂浮了两周半，它与海床上残骸的关系不会太大。”
Mike Purcell, a senior engineer at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts, who led two underwater search expeditions for the wreck of Air France Flight 447 in the Atlantic in 2010 and 2011, said that the current search zone for Flight 370 was far more remote than the location of the Air France wreckage and that the seas and weather conditions were known to be considerably rougher.
美国马萨诸塞州伍兹霍尔海洋研究所(Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution)的高级工程师迈克尔·普塞尔(Michael Purcell)曾于2010年和2011年领导过两次搜寻法国航空(Air France)447航班残骸的水下探险，他说，与法航447航班残骸所在的位置相比，目前寻找马航370航班的区域更为遥远，而且那里已知的海洋和天气条件也更为糟糕。
“That can slow down your progress considerably, because it makes it more difficult to operate, to get the vehicles in and out of the water,” he said. And bad weather can mean days of waiting to resume the search.
他说，“这会极大地影响搜寻进程，因为这让操作更加困难，把潜水装置放入海里、把其从海里取出来的操作都更困难。”糟糕的天气也可能意味着需要中断搜索工作多天。
Mr. Purcell estimated that there were fewer than a dozen underwater search vehicles in the world equipped with the sonar and imaging technology required for a deepwater search of this scale. These are operated by a handful of private companies and oceanographic institutes as well as by the United States Navy, he said.
能进行这种规模的深海搜寻的潜水器需要特别的声呐系统和成像技术，普塞尔估计，这种潜水器在世界上不超过十几个。他说，一些私人公司和海洋研究所以及美国海军掌握这种潜水器。
Mr. Purcell said one advantage was that the sea floor in the southern Indian Ocean was relatively flat compared with the highly varied terrain of the mid-Atlantic. The depth of the water is comparable, however, at more than 10,000 feet.
普塞尔说，与大西洋中部多变的海底地貌相比，南印度洋海底相对较平是一种优势。但是，两处的海水深度不相上下，都在3000米以上。
Military submarines have sophisticated equipment for listening for ships or other submarines. But unlike towed sonar like the Bluefin-21, which the United States Navy is sending and which can descend to 14,700 feet, or a towed pinger detector, which can plunge 20,000 feet, military submarines are designed to operate within a few hundred feet of the surface. That limits their ability to detect pings from far below the surface in water of different densities, moving at different speeds and at different temperatures.
军用潜艇有更高级的设备来监听过往船只和其他潜艇。但是，军用潜艇上的设备，只能在距离海面几百米以内工作，不像美国海军运出的“金枪鱼-21”(Bluefin-21)这类声呐装置，可下潜到4400米的深度，也不同于另外一种拖在船后使用的ping探测器，能下潜到6000米的深度。因此，军事装置在距海面较深的密度不同、流速不同以及在温度不同的水中探测ping信号的能力很有限。
For now, aircraft from Australia and other countries have been looking in an area the size of the western and southwestern United States, where the plane is believed to have disappeared after its last signals to a satellite. They have not extended the search to all the places where debris might have drifted. But because the area of the aircraft’s disappearance is so far from land, roughly a four-hour flight in each direction, planes can spend only a couple of hours searching.
目前，澳大利亚和其他国家的飞机正在一个相当于美国西部和西南部大小的范围内搜索，那里是该航班向卫星发出最后信号后据认消失的区域。搜索行动还没有扩展到碎片可能会漂到的所有地方。但是由于航班消失的地方离陆地极为遥远，飞机飞到那里单程需要4小时左右，所以只能用两小时的时间进行搜寻。
Making matters worse, oceanographers said, is that currents in the southern Indian Ocean are less well understood than in more heavily trafficked seas. A violent storm on Tuesday, one of many in the region as the southern hemisphere’s winter approaches and days become shorter, has further churned the waters.
海洋学家说，难上加难的是，人们对南印度洋洋流的了解要比对那些交通繁忙海域的少。周二的一次强烈风暴已经进一步搅动了那里的洋面，随着南半球冬季来临，那里的风暴会更频繁，白天也将变得更短。