SEPANG, Malaysia — Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia announced on Saturday afternoon that Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 left its planned route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing as the result of deliberate action by someone aboard.
马来西亚雪邦——马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)周六下午宣布，马来西亚航空公司370航班在从吉隆坡前往北京途中偏离了预定航线，这是机上某人的蓄意行为导致的。
Mr. Najib also said that search efforts in the South China Sea had been ended, and that technical experts now believed that the aircraft could have ended up anywhere in one of two zones — one as far north as Kazakhstan in Central Asia, and the other crossing the southern Indian Ocean.
纳吉布还说，在南海的搜寻行动已结束，并称技术专家目前认为，飞机可能处在两片区域中的任何一个地点：其中一个区域向北一直延伸到中亚的哈萨克斯坦，另一个区域则穿过了印度洋南部。
That conclusion was based on a final signal from the plane picked up on satellite at 8:11 a.m. on March 8, nearly seven hours after ground control lost contact with the jet, he said.
纳吉布说，这个结论的依据是卫星在3月8日上午8:11最后接收到的飞机信号，此时距离飞机和地面控制台失去联系已经过去了近7小时。
While Mr. Najib said that investigators had not ruled out alternatives to hijacking, his remarks represented official confirmation that the disappearance of the Boeing 777-200 a week earlier had not been an accident. He noted that one communications system had been disabled as the plane flew over the northeast coast of Malaysia and that a second system, a transponder aboard the aircraft, had stopped broadcasting its location, altitude, speed and other information at 1:21 a.m. while the plane was one-third of the way across the Gulf of Thailand from Malaysia to Vietnam.
尽管纳吉布说，调查人员还没有排除飞机被劫持之外的可能性，但是他的言论表明官方已经确认，一周之前发生的波音777-200客机失去联系的事件不是一次事故。纳吉布指出，当飞机飞越马来西亚东北海岸时，机上有一套通讯系统被禁用。第二套系统，即机上的应答器也在凌晨1:21停止播报飞机的位置、高度、速度和其他信息，当时，飞机正从马来西亚飞越泰国湾前往越南，并已飞过泰国湾三分之一的航程。
Mr. Najib’s news conference came a day after American officials and others familiar with the investigation told The New York Times that Flight 370 had experienced significant changes in altitude after it lost contact with ground control, and altered its course more than once as if still under the command of a pilot.
纳吉布举行新闻发布会的前一天，美国官员和其他熟知调查情况的人士对《纽约时报》透露，马航370航班在和地面控制人员失去联系后，飞行高度发生了大幅变化，并且不止一次改变航向，仿佛依然处于某位飞行员的控制之下。
Military radar data subsequently showed that the aircraft turned and flew west across northern Malaysia before arcing out over the wide northern end of the Strait of Malacca, headed at cruising altitude for the Indian Ocean.
军用雷达数据随后显示，飞机调转了航向，向西飞越马来西亚北部，之后在马六甲海峡北端较宽的位置转弯，然后维持巡航高度向印度洋飞去。
The Seventh Fleet of the United States Navy said in a statement Saturday that its search for the missing plane now encompasses the Strait of Malacca and beyond to the Bay of Bengal — an enormous area. But Mr. Najib said that representatives of many more governments across the region had been contacted, given that the plane may have been flying for many hours after it left Malaysian airspace.
美国海军第七舰队(Seventh Fleet)在周六发表的一则声明中说，目前舰队对失联飞机的搜索面覆盖了马六甲海峡，并延伸至孟加拉湾——这是一片广阔的海域。不过，纳吉布说，鉴于飞机可能在离开马来西亚空域后继续飞行了很多个小时，他们已经联络了周边地区其他很多国家的政府代表。
By noting that investigators had not yet concluded that the episode was a hijacking, Mr. Najib seemed to leave open the possibility that the cockpit crew might have chosen to take the aircraft to an unknown destination. He declined to take any questions, and a spokesman said that technical experts would hold a separate news conference to answer questions later in the day. But officials later said that the second news conference had been canceled.
纳吉布指出，调查人员还未断定此次事件是劫机，他的话似乎没有排除机组人员选择把飞机开往未知目的地的可能性。他拒绝接受任何提问，一名发言人说，技术专家将在当日晚些时候另行举行新闻发布会回答问题。不过官员们后来表示，第二场新闻发布会已被取消。