KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The Malaysian authorities released new details on Tuesday of the last satellite communications by Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
马来西亚吉隆坡——马来西亚当局周二发布了关于马航370航班最后一次与卫星通信的最新细节。
Hishammuddin Hussein, the defense minister and acting transport minister, said that the plane appeared to have sent a last, partial satellite signal eight minutes after a previously disclosed electronic “handshake” between the plane and a satellite at 8:11 a.m. on March 8. The incomplete signal represented a “partial handshake,” he said.
马来西亚国防部长兼代理交通部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)说，这架飞机看来曾最后发出一个不完整的卫星信号，是在此前公布的3月8日上午8:11与卫星电子“握手”的8分钟之后。他说，这个不完整的信号相当于一个“部分握手”。
“At this time, this transmission is not understood and is subject to further ongoing work,” Mr. Hishammuddin said.
希沙姆丁说，“目前，我们对这个信号传输的意义还不理解，有待进一步的工作来明确。”
The next signal from the aircraft was due at 9:15 a.m. but never came. Mr. Hishammuddin referred delicately to the likelihood that the cessation of signals came after the plane ran out of fuel, saying that the timing “is consistent with the maximum endurance of the aircraft.”
该航班下一次应该发送信号的时间为9:15，但却再也没有消息。希沙姆丁谨慎地暗示没有再发出信号是因为飞机燃油耗尽，他说，这个时间“与这架飞机的最长飞行时间相吻合。”
The Chinese government continued to make skeptical remarks over the announcement by the Malaysians. “We are highly concerned with Malaysia’s conclusion, and have demanded full information and the evidence that supports the conclusion,” a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said at a regularly scheduled news conference in the afternoon.
中国政府对马来西亚的宣布继续表示怀疑。外交部发言人洪磊在下午的一次例会上说，“我们对此高度关注。中方已要求马方进一步提供得出这一结论的所有信息和证据。”
Mr. Hishammuddin’s office subsequently released calculations from Inmarsat, a British satellite company, showing a wide area of sea in the southern Indian Ocean where the plane could have ended up, depending on its ground speed. The area to be searched measures 469,407 square nautical miles — equivalent to 1.61 million square kilometers.
希沙姆丁的办公室随后发布了来自英国卫星公司Inmarsat的计算，计算给出了南印度洋的一个很大范围，那是航班可能停止飞行的海域，取决于飞机的飞行速度。需要搜索的区域达46.9407万平方海里，约合161万平方公里。
That is a fifth of the combined area of the northern and southern arcs that were identified as search areas on March 18. But the deputy chief of Australia’s Defense Force, Air Marshal Mark Binskin, underlined the vastness of the search area. “We are not searching for a needle in a haystack — we are still trying to define where the haystack is,” he told reporters at Pearce Air Force Base, near Perth.
该区域是3月18日被确定为搜索区的南北两个弧形地区总面积的五分之一。但是澳大利亚国防军(Australia’s Defense Force)副司令、空军元帅马克·宾斯金(Mark Binskin)强调说这片搜索区域仍很大。他在珀斯附近的皮尔斯空军基地(Pearce Air Force Base)对记者说，“我们不是在海中捞针，我们仍在试图确定那片海在哪儿。”
Aircraft operating out of Perth, have been trying to do sweeps of about 20,000 square nautical miles a day. An underwater search for pings from the aircraft’s black box would be much slower. The United States Navy now sending to Perth from New York an undersea listening device that is designed to be towed behind a slow-moving ship.
以珀斯为基地的空中搜寻在以每天2万平方海里的进度进行。在水下搜索这架飞机的黑匣子发出的ping信号则可能会更慢。美国海军(The United States Navy)现在正从纽约向珀斯送去一个水下测听装置，该装置可用于拖在一艘缓慢行驶船只后面进行搜索。
Mr. Hishammuddin said at a news conference on Tuesday evening that all further search for the aircraft had been canceled in the so-called northern corridor, from Kazakhstan across China to northern Laos, and had also been suspended in the east-central Indian Ocean near Indonesia.
希沙姆丁周二晚上在一次新闻发布会上说，已经取消了在所谓的北部走廊地区的所有进一步搜索的行动，北部走廊跨越从哈萨克斯坦到中国再到老挝北部的一大片地区，在印度尼西亚附近的印度洋东中部地区进行的搜索也已停止。
Ahmad Jauhari Yahya, the chief executive of Malaysia Airlines, repeated the assessment of the authorities here that those aboard the aircraft all appear to have perished when the plane ran out of fuel, particularly given that it has been 17 days since the plane disappeared. “For anyone to survive that long is extremely, extremely remote,” he said.
马来西亚航空公司首席执行官阿迈德·焦哈里·叶哈亚(Ahmad Jauhari Yahya)重复了马来西亚当局的结论，也就是这架飞机上的所有人员在飞机燃油耗尽时看来已经离开了人世，尤其是考虑到飞机已经失踪17天了。他说，“对任何人来说，这么长的时间后还能活下来的可能性微乎其微。”
“We must accept the painful reality that the aircraft is now lost, and that none of the passengers or crew on board survived,” said Mohamed Nor Yusof, the chairman of Malaysia Airlines. He said the airline’s primary responsibility now was caring for the grieving families.
马来西亚航空公司董事长穆罕默德·诺尔·尤索夫(Mohamed Nor Yusof)说，“我们必须接受这个惨痛的现实，这架飞机已经失事，机上所有乘客和机组成员都没能幸免。”他说马来西亚航空公司现在最主要的责任是照顾悲伤的家属。
David Johnston, Australia’s defense minister, described the search as taking place in “probably one of the most remote parts of the planet” and one that “has shipwrecked many sailors.” He said an Australian vessel, which on Monday was scouring for possible debris spotted by an aircraft, was forced to deploy 75 miles to the south because of weather conditions.
澳大利亚国防部长戴维·约翰斯顿(David Johnston)把正在进行的搜索描述为“可能是在地球上最偏远的一个地方”的行动，而且那里“曾让很多水手遇难。”他说，由于天气状况，一艘澳大利亚船只已被迫往南撤了75英里，该船曾于周一出海寻找被一架飞机发现的可能的飞机残骸。
Mr. Johnston said that despite several reports of possible debris from the plane having being spotted in the southern Indian Ocean, none had been recovered yet, suggesting that any wreckage could be in an altogether different area.
约翰斯顿说，尽管有过几次在南印度洋发现了一些可能是飞机残骸的报道，但至今尚未打捞到任何一个，这说明残骸可能会在另一个完全不同的区域。
The United States military said Monday it was sending an unmanned submersible craft capable of searching for wreckage using sonar systems. Known as the Bluefin-21 autonomous underwater vehicle, it was sent by air from New York and was expected to arrive in Perth on Tuesday.
美国军方周一表示，已派出一艘能够用声纳系统搜寻残骸的无人驾驶潜水器。这艘名叫“金枪鱼-21”(Bluefin-21)的自动潜水器已经从纽约空运出来，预计会在周二到达珀斯。
Rear Adm. John Kirby, a Pentagon spokesman, told reporters that the submersible, which is shaped like a torpedo, would only be useful once the location of the wreckage is known.
五角大楼发言人海军少将约翰·柯比(John Kirby)对记者说，这艘看起来像一枚鱼雷的潜水器，只有确定了残骸所在区域后，才能派上用场。
“It’s being sent there to be ready should there be a need,” he said. “And right now, there’s no need. We do not have a debris field.” 
他说，“把它运往那里，是为了可能出现的需要做好准备。就目前来说，还没有这种需要。我们还不知道残骸的所在区域。”