BANGKOK — The government of Malaysia declared North Korea’s ambassador “persona non grata” on Saturday and gave him 48 hours to leave the country, a major break in diplomatic relations after the airport assassination of Kim Jong-nam, the half brother of North Korea’s leader.
曼谷——马来西亚政府周六宣布朝鲜大使为“不受欢迎的人”，要求他在48小时内离境，这是朝鲜领导人同父异母的兄长金正男在该国机场遭到暗杀之后，两国外交关系的重大破裂。
The decision to expel Ambassador Kang Chol came after he failed to appear at Malaysia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs as requested. Earlier, Mr. Kang had ignored a request to apologize for several inflammatory statements, including questioning the police finding that Mr. Kim was murdered with a banned nerve agent.
驱逐大使的决定，是在朝鲜大使姜哲(Kang Chol)没有按照要求前往马来西亚外交部之后做出的。早些时候，姜哲对于要求他为一些煽动性言论道歉的要求充耳不闻，比如警方发现金正男死于禁用的神经毒剂之后，他提出质疑。
“It should be made clear — Malaysia will react strongly against any insults made against it or any attempt to tarnish its reputation,” Foreign Minister Anifah Aman said in a statement announcing the expulsion order.
马来西亚外长阿尼法·阿曼(Anifah Aman)在宣布驱逐令的声明中说，“必须明确指出，马来西亚将对任何侮辱或任何诋毁本国声誉的做法都将作出强烈反应。”
Mr. Kim, the elder half brother of North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, died on Feb. 13 less than 20 minutes after two women wiped poison on his face as he prepared to check in for a flight at Kuala Lumpur International Airport. The women, one from Indonesia and one from Vietnam, have been charged with murder.
金正男是朝鲜领导人金正恩同父异母的兄弟，2月13日在吉隆坡国际机场准备办理登机手续时，两名女子在他脸上涂抹了毒药，不到20分钟后他就毒发身亡。这两名女子一个来自印度尼西亚，一个来自越南，两人均面临谋杀指控。
The police are seeking seven North Korean men in the case, including two believed by the authorities to have taken refuge at the North Korean Embassy. South Korea has accused the North Korean government of masterminding the attack.
调查该案的警察正在寻找七名朝鲜男子，当局认为其中两人正在朝鲜大使馆避难。韩国指责朝鲜政府策划了这起袭击。
Mr. Kang, using unusually blunt language for a diplomat, had said that North Korea “cannot trust” the Malaysian police investigation. He charged that it was politically motivated and accused Malaysia of colluding with outside powers to defame North Korea.
作为外交官来说，姜哲使用的语言异常生硬，他说朝鲜“不能相信”马来西亚警方的调查。他说这种调查是出于政治动机，还指责马来西亚勾结外国势力诽谤朝鲜。
Mr. Kang referred to Kim Jong-nam only by the name on the passport he was carrying, Kim Chol, and sought to have his body handed over to the embassy before an autopsy could be performed. He subsequently challenged Malaysia’s finding that Mr. Kim had been killed with the nerve agent VX, a highly toxic chemical weapon known to be in North Korea’s arsenal but banned under international conventions.
姜哲在提到金正男的时候，使用的是其携带的护照上的名字金哲(Kim Chol)，他试图让马来西亚把尸体先移交给朝鲜使馆，然后再进行尸体解剖。马来西亚做出金正男被神经毒剂VX杀死的结论之后，他又提出了质疑。神经毒剂VX是一种剧毒的化学武器，已知朝鲜拥有这种国际公约禁用的武器。
The Foreign Ministry had set a deadline of 5 p.m. last Tuesday for Mr. Kang to apologize for his statements.
马来西亚外交部把上周二下午5点定为最后期限，要求姜哲为这些言论道歉。
“Almost four days have passed since the deadline lapsed,” the foreign minister said in his statement. “No such apology has been made, neither has there been any indication that one is forthcoming. For this reason, the ambassador has been declared persona non grata.”
“截止日期已过去了差不多四天。”外交部长在声明中说，“我们没有收到这样的道歉，也没有任何迹象表明他将做出道歉。因此，这名大使被宣布为不受欢迎的人。”
Mr. Anifah noted that the police had released a North Korean man arrested in the case, Ri Jong Chol, for lack of evidence on Friday. He said it was “proof that the investigation is conducted in an impartial, fair and transparent manner, as befits a country that practices the rule of law.”
阿尼法指出，由于没有证据，警方已经于周五释放了因该案被捕的朝鲜男子李正哲(Ri Jong Chol)。他说，“这证明调查是以公正、公平和透明的方式进行的，实行法治的国家都会这么做。”
Declaring an ambassador persona non grata is one of the harshest measures a country can take short of breaking off diplomatic relations. Malaysia had previously recalled its ambassador from North Korea for consultations and there was no indication when he might be sent back.
宣布某国大使是不受欢迎的人，是一个国家在断绝外交关系之外最严厉的举动之一。马来西亚之前已经召回其驻朝鲜大使进行协商，没有迹象表明可能会派他返回朝鲜。
Some Malaysians have questioned why the country has an embassy in North Korea, given that there is little trade between the countries and few Malaysian tourists venture there.
一些马来西亚人质疑，两个国家之间几乎没有贸易往来，也几乎没有什么马来西亚游客前往朝鲜。为什么该国还要在朝鲜设立大使馆。
On Thursday, Malaysia announced that it would end its practice of allowing North Koreans to enter without a visa, effective Monday.
上周四，马来西亚宣布，它将在本周一终止朝鲜人免签入境的做法。
About 1,000 North Koreans live and work in Malaysia, where they can help bring in foreign currency for their isolated country, which has struggled economically under international sanctions.
约有1000名朝鲜人在马来西亚生活和工作，他们可以帮助被孤立的朝鲜获得外汇。在国际制裁下，朝鲜的经济面临很大的困难。