SEPANG, Malaysia — The radar blip that was Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 did a wide U-turn over the Gulf of Thailand and then began moving inexorably past at least three military radar arrays as it traversed northern Malaysia, even flying high over one of the country’s biggest cities before heading out over the Strait of Malacca.
马来西亚雪邦——马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班的雷达光点在泰国湾上空完成了一个大半径回转后，又一口气飞越了至少三个军用雷达阵，从马来西亚北部的天空飞过，甚至从高空经过了马来西亚数一数二的一座大城市，然后继续前行飞过了马六甲海峡。
Yet inside a Malaysian Air Force control room on the country’s west coast, where American-made F-18s and F-5 fighters stood at a high level of readiness for emergencies exactly like the one unfolding in the early morning of March 8, a four-person air defense radar crew did nothing about the unauthorized flight. “The watch team never noticed the blip,” said a person with detailed knowledge of the investigation into Flight 370. “It was as though the airspace was his.”
然而，在马来西亚西海岸，一间马来西亚空军(Malaysian Air Force)的控制室内，一个四人组成的空防雷达工作组面对这次未经授权的飞行任务却无动于衷。在这里，美国制造的F-18和F-5战机处于高度警戒状态，随时准备应对3月8日早上发生的这类紧急情况。“监控人员从没注意到这个雷达光点”，一个了解370航班调查工作详细进展的人说。“就好像这片领空是属于他的。”
It was not the first and certainly not the last in a long series of errors by the Malaysian government that has made the geographically vast and technologically complex task of finding the $50 million Malaysia Airlines jet far more difficult.
错过这个光点绝不是第一个，也绝不是最后一个马来西亚政府犯下的错误。他们已经犯下了一系列错误，让这项在大范围内进行复杂技术操作，以寻找到这架价值5000万美元（约合3亿元人民币）马航客机的任务愈加艰难。
A week after the plane disappeared, the trail is even colder as the search now sprawls from the snowy peaks of the Himalayas to the empty expanses of the southern Indian Ocean. Nobody knows yet whether the delays cost the lives of any of the 239 people who boarded the flight to Beijing at Kuala Lumpur’s ultramodern airport here. But the mistakes have accumulated at a remarkable pace.
在这架客机消失一周后，搜索行动的范围从冰雪覆盖的喜马拉雅山峰，延伸至印度洋南部的大片空旷海域，其踪迹更加渺茫。共有239人登上了这架从吉隆坡超现代化机场前往北京的航班，没人知道这些拖延是否让他们中的任何人付出了生命的代价。但失误的数量正以惊人的速度增长。
“The fact that it flew straight over Malaysia, without the Malaysian military identifying it, is just plain weird — not just weird, but also very damning and tragic,” said David Learmount, the operations and safety editor for Flightglobal, a news and data service for the aviation sector.
航空业新闻和数据服务商Flightglobal的运营和安全编辑戴维·利尔蒙特(David Learmount)说，“这架飞机从马来西亚上空飞过，而马来西亚军方却没有识别出来，这太奇怪了。不光奇怪，还是极其恶劣和令人悲痛的 。”
Senior Malaysian military officers became aware within hours of the radar data once word spread that a civilian airliner had vanished. The Malaysian government nonetheless organized and oversaw an expensive and complex international search effort in the Gulf of Thailand that lasted for a full week. Only on Saturday morning did Prime Minister Najib Razak finally shut it down after admitting what had already been widely reported in the news media: Satellite data showed that the engines on the missing plane had continued to run for nearly six more hours after it left Malaysian airspace.
当这架民航客机消失的消息传出后，马来西亚军方高级官员在几个小时之内就了解了上述雷达数据的存在。然而马来西亚政府仍然组织并监管了在泰国湾开展的昂贵和复杂的国际搜救行动，行动持续了整整一个星期。直到周六早上，总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)才终于结束了泰国湾的搜索，承认了媒体早已广泛报道的事实：卫星数据显示，在离开马来西亚空域之后，失联客机上的引擎又持续工作了将近六个小时。
Finding the plane and figuring out what happened to it is now a far more daunting task than if the plane had been intercepted. If the aircraft ended up in the southern Indian Ocean, as some aviation experts now suggest, then floating debris could have subsequently drifted hundreds of miles, making it extremely hard to figure out where the cockpit voice and data recorders sank.
由于飞机没有被拦截，这大大增加了寻找这家飞机、弄清楚事情真相的难度。如果真像一些航空专家现在所说的那样，飞机最后落入了印度洋南部海域，那么漂浮的残骸可能已经移开了数百英里，那么要弄清楚驾驶舱内录音和数据记录器沉没的地点就变得极其困难。
And because the recorders keep only the last two hours of cockpit conversation, even the aircraft’s recorders may hold few secrets.
并且由于记录器只能保留驾驶舱内最后两小时的对话，即使找到可能还是会有一些谜团无法解开 。
With so much uncertainty about the flight, it is not yet possible to know whether any actions by the Malaysian government or military could have altered its fate. Responding to a storm of criticism, particularly from China, whose citizens made up two-thirds of the passengers, Mr. Najib took pains in a statement early Saturday afternoon to say that Malaysia had not concealed information, including military data.
围绕这架航班有如此多的不确定性。现在还无法知道，马来西亚政府和军方的任何行动是否已对它的命运做出改变 。面对铺天盖地的批评，尤其是来自中国的批评，纳吉布周六下午早些时候主动作出了一项声明，表示马来西亚没有隐瞒任何信息，包括军方的数据。这架飞机上三分之二的乘客是中国人。
“We have shared information in real time with authorities who have the necessary experience to interpret the data,” he said, reading aloud a statement in English at a news conference. “We have been working nonstop to assist the investigation, and we have put our national security second to the search for the missing plane.”
纳吉布在新闻发布会上用英语高声宣读了一份声明，他说，“我们已经与具有所需经验来解读数据的有关部门实时分享了信息。我们一直不间断地协助调查，我们已经把对失踪客机的寻找置于国家安全之上。”
Malaysia Airlines issued a similarly defensive statement late Saturday afternoon. “Given the nature of the situation and its extreme sensitivity, it was critical that the raw satellite signals were verified and analyzed by the relevant authorities so that their significance could be properly understood,” the airline said. “This naturally took some time, during which we were unable to publicly confirm their existence.”
马来西亚航空公司周六下午晚些时候也发表了一份同样具有辩护意味的声明。这家航空公司说，“考虑到当前情况的性质以及其极大的敏感性，相关政府部门核实和分析原始的卫星信号，以便恰当地理解这些信号的意义，这至关重要。这当然要花一些时间，在此期间，我们无法公开证实这些信号的存在。”
Aviation experts said that a trained pilot would be the most obvious person to have carried out a complicated scheme involving the plane. Yet for a week after the plane’s disappearance, Malaysian law enforcement authorities said that their investigation did not include searching the home of the pilot, Zaharie Ahmad Shah.
航空专家说，最有可能利用这架飞机实施某种复杂阴谋的人，应该是一名训练有素的飞行员。然而在飞机消失后的一周，马来西亚执法机构仍然表示，他们的调查并没有包括对飞行员扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)住所的搜查。
On Saturday afternoon, the police were seen entering the gated community where Mr. Zaharie was said to have lived, and Malaysian news media reported that they had searched his home. The police declined to comment, and it is not known whether the authorities made any effort to secure Mr. Zaharie’s home and prevent any destruction of evidence over the past week.
周六下午，有人看到警方进入了据说是扎哈里所居住的封闭式社区，马来西亚新闻媒体报道说，警方已经搜查了扎哈里的家。警方拒绝置评，目前还不清楚有关部门过去一周是否采取了行动，以控制住扎哈里的住宅，并防止可能存在的证据被销毁。
Mr. Najib said on Saturday that “the Malaysian authorities have refocused their investigation into the crew and passengers on board,” but Mr. Zaharie has not been accused of any wrongdoing. No information has been released yet on whether the homes of the co-pilot or flight attendants might be searched.
纳吉布周六说，“马来西亚当局已经把调查重点转向了机组成员和机上乘客，”不过，尚未对扎哈里提出任何指控 。目前也没有信息表明，是否会搜查副驾驶和其他空乘人员的住所。
Even before the plane took off, Malaysian immigration officials had already allowed onto the plane at least two people using passports that had been logged into a global database as stolen, although there is no evidence that either person carrying a stolen passport was involved in diverting the plane.
甚至在飞机起飞前，马来西亚的移民官员就至少已为两名持有假护照的乘客放行，虽然这两本护照已经被一个全球的数据库标记为被盗护照。但目前还没有证据显示，持假护照登机的乘客与飞机偏离航线的操作有关。
A British Royal Air Force base in the colonial era, the Malaysian air force base at Butterworth sits on the mainland across from the island of Penang at the northern reaches of the Strait of Malacca. There, in the early morning hours of March 8, the four-person crew watching for intrusions into the country’s airspace either did not notice or failed to report a blip on their defensive radar and air traffic radar that was moving steadily across the country from east to west, heading right toward them, said the person with knowledge of the matter.
马来西亚空军在北海(Butterworth)的空军基地，也曾是殖民地时期英国皇家空军的基地，它位于马来西亚大陆马六甲海峡北端，与槟榔屿隔海相望。那位知情人士表示，在3月8日凌晨，就在那个雷达光点持续从东往西飞行，向着控制室方向飞去时，在控制室内执行观察任务，追踪任何对马来西亚领空入侵的四名工作人员，要么是没有注意到防空和空管雷达上的这个光点，要么是没有汇报。
Neither that team nor the crews at two other radar installations at Kota Bharu, closer to where the airliner last had contact with the ground, designated the blip as an unknown intruder warranting attention, the person said. The aircraft proceeded to fly across the country and out to sea without anyone on watch telling a superior and alerting the national defense command near Kuala Lumpur, even though the radar contact’s flight path did not correspond to any filed flight plan.
这位知情者说，这几名工作人员，以及位于哥打巴鲁的另两个雷达站的工作人员，都没有认定这个光点是值得引起注意的未知状况。那两个雷达站与飞机最后与地面联系的位置要更近一些。这架飞机在这个国家的上空穿过，飞向了海域上空，虽然雷达所捕捉的飞行路径与任何申报的飞行计划都不相符，却没有任何监控人员向上级汇报，或者提醒吉隆坡附近的国家防务指挥中心。