HONG KONG — The Malaysian government declared on Thursday that the loss of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 last March was an accident according to the terms of an international air agreement and that the 239 passengers and crew members aboard the plane were presumed dead.
香港——马来西亚政府周四宣布，根据国际航空协议的条款，马来西亚航空公司370号航班去年3月的失联是一场事故，机上239名乘客和机组人员已推定罹难。
While Malaysian officials had said last spring that the plane appeared to have been lost with all aboard, the step on Thursday cleared the way for death certificates to be issued for the passengers and crew members. It also allowed Malaysia Airlines and its insurers to pay compensation to the next of kin — although litigation over the amount of compensation could continue for years.
马来西亚官员去年春天曾表示，飞机和机上全部人员看来已经失踪，周四的做法则为发放乘客及机组成员的死亡证明铺平了道路。这也可以让马来西亚航空公司和保险公司开始向机上人员的亲属赔付赔偿金——尽管关于赔偿金额的诉讼可能会持续数年。
But the official declaration did nothing to clear up the mystery of what happened to the plane. The Australian government, which is coordinating a search by four vessels of the sea floor in the southern Indian Ocean, said that efforts to find debris from the crash would continue.
但是，官方声明对消除飞机失踪的谜团没有提供任何帮助。负责协调四艘船只在南印度洋海底进行搜索的澳大利亚政府表示，寻找飞机残骸的努力将继续下去。
“Australia, Malaysia and China remain committed to the search,” the Australian government said in a statement. “We remain cautiously optimistic the aircraft will be found.”
“澳大利亚、马来西亚和中国将继续致力于搜索工作，”澳大利亚政府在一份声明中说。“我们对飞机会被找到保持谨慎的乐观。”
Speculation about the cause of the aircraft’s disappearance has included the possibilities that a rogue pilot diverted the flight, that there was a hijacking and that there was a fire on board. Azharuddin Abdul Rahman, the director general of Malaysia’s Department of Civil Aviation, cautioned that without the flight recorders, “there is no evidence to substantiate any speculations as to the cause of the accident.”
人们对飞机失踪原因有几种猜测，比如行为失常的飞行员改变了航线，或者飞机被劫持，还有飞机上失了火等。马来西亚民航局总监阿兹哈鲁丁·阿卜杜勒·拉赫曼(Azharuddin Abdul Rahman)提醒人们说，在没有找到飞行记录器的情况下，“对失事原因的任何猜测都没有支持的证据。”
Flight 370 disappeared March 8 on what was supposed to be a routine, six-hour flight to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital. But the plane, a Boeing 777, mysteriously did a U-turn, and its main communications systems were disabled, as it reached an area over the Gulf of Thailand where the pilots should have been changing from Malaysian to Vietnamese air traffic control.
马航370航班去年3月8日消失，它原本是在执行常规的、从马来西亚首都吉隆坡到北京的六小时飞行任务。但是，这架波音777机型的客机飞到泰国湾上空时，飞行员本该从马来西亚空中交通管制转换到越南空管，飞机却莫名其妙地掉了头，机上的主要通信系统也停止了工作。
Malaysian radar subsequently tracked the aircraft as it flew west across northern Peninsular Malaysia, making a couple of turns, and disappeared toward the northern end of the Indonesian island of Sumatra.
马来西亚雷达后来跟踪到飞机，它横穿马来西亚半岛北部向西飞行，转了几个弯，后来在飞向印度尼西亚苏门答腊岛北端时，从雷达上消失。
Automatic pings transmitted by the plane’s engines to a satellite over the Indian Ocean showed that the engines continued to operate for another six hours; analyses by aerospace and telecommunications companies later suggested that the plane had turned roughly south after passing the north end of Sumatra and continued flying until it ran out of fuel.
印度洋上的一颗卫星接收到的由飞机发动机自动发出的ping信号表明，发动机继续运转了六小时；航空航天公司以及电信公司的分析后来建议，这架飞机在经过苏门答腊岛北端后，基本上是在向南继续飞行，直到燃料用尽。