The Malaysian authorities sought on Wednesday to definitively put to rest a nagging question about the brazen assassination of a man in Kuala Lumpur’s international airport last month: They said he was indeed Kim Jong-nam, estranged half brother of Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, because they had DNA confirmation from a relative.
上月，一名男子在吉隆坡的国际机场被明目张胆地暗杀。周三，马来西亚当局寻求给关于此事的一个令人困扰的问题画上句号：他们说死者的确是金正男(Kim Jong-nam)，也就是朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)同父异母的哥哥，因为他们通过来自一名家属的DNA样本确认了他的身份。
The police compared the DNA of Mr. Kim with a sample provided by one of his children, Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi told reporters at a news conference.
马来西亚副总理艾哈迈德·扎希德·哈米迪(Ahmad Zahid Hamidi)在一个新闻发布会上告诉记者，警方将金正男的DNA样本与他的一名子女提供的DNA样本做了比对。
“I once again confirm that the body is that of Kim Jong-nam,” Mr. Zahid said, contradicting the official North Korean position, which insists the man, killed Feb. 13 in a crowded airport terminal, was named Kim Chol.
“我再次确认这是金正男的尸体，”哈米迪说。其说法与朝鲜官方的立场相矛盾，后者坚持认为，于2月13日在一个拥挤的航站楼里被杀害的男子名叫金哲(Kim Chol)。
Mr. Kim was assaulted by two women who approached him and smeared his face with a liquid that autopsy tests showed was the banned chemical agent VX. He was carrying a passport with the name Kim Chol.
袭击金正男的是两名女子，她们接近他并把一种液体涂抹到他的脸上，尸检结果显示，那种液体是被禁的化学剂VX。他当时持有一本名为金哲的护照。
The man’s death has caused a widening diplomatic standoff between Malaysia and North Korea, which has rejected accusations of responsibility for the assassination, calling it a sinister plot hatched by the country’s enemies.
这名男子的死亡在马来西亚和朝鲜之间引发了愈演愈烈的外交僵局。朝鲜驳斥了关于它对此次刺杀负有责任的指控，称之为敌人炮制的险恶阴谋。
Mr. Zahid did not indicate when and how Malaysian officials had obtained the DNA. Mr. Kim was believed to have two sons and a daughter, but their whereabouts is unknown. Last week, a man calling himself Kim Han-sol and claiming to be Mr. Kim’s son released a YouTube video in which he said he and his family had gone into hiding.
哈米迪未提及马拉西亚官员是在何时以何种方法拿到DNA样本的。金正男据信育有两子一女，但外界不知道他们的行踪。上周，一名自称金正男之子金韩松(Kim Han-Sol)的男子在YouTube上发布了一则视频，他在视频中说他和家人已经躲了起来。
For weeks Malaysia has said it determined Mr. Kim’s identity using methods other than DNA testing, but has not revealed what they were. A report in the New Straits Times, citing unidentified Malaysian officials, said investigators had used the pattern of moles on the man’s face and a distinctive tattoo to confirm his identity.
几周以来，马来西亚一直声称它用DNA检测以外的方法确认了金正男的身份，但并未说明都是什么方法。《新海峡时报》(New Straits Times) 的一则报道援引未具名马来西亚官员的话称，调查人员是通过死者脸上痣的形态及身上的一个独特文身来确认其身份的。
Malaysian officials said Mr. Kim’s body had been embalmed and his family would be given several weeks to claim it. In February, North Korea sent a former United Nations ambassador to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia’s capital, to claim the body, but the authorities would not release it, claiming at the time they needed DNA to confirm the victim’s identity.
马来西亚官员称，金正男的尸体经过了防腐处理，其家人将被给予几周的时间来认领。2月，朝鲜曾派一名前驻联合国大使赴马来西亚首都吉隆坡认领尸体，但当局未将尸体交出，他们当时声称需要获得家属的DNA样本以便确认死者的身份。
Relations between Malaysia and North Korea have deteriorated since the assassination. Each has expelled the other’s ambassador and barred each other’s nationals from leaving.
刺杀事件发生后，马来西亚和朝鲜的关系出现了恶化。两国相互驱逐了对方的大使，并禁止本国境内对方的公民离开。
The victim’s assailants, arrested and charged with murder, have claimed they were unwitting participants who believed they had been on a hidden-camera prank television show. The police are looking for at least seven suspected North Korean accomplices, including a diplomat believed to be hiding in North Korea’s embassy in Malaysia.
已遭逮捕并被控谋杀的刺杀者，均声称是在不知情的情况下参与其中的，本以为自己正参加一个以隐蔽性摄像机拍摄的恶作剧电视节目。警方正在追捕至少7名疑似为共犯的朝鲜人，其中包括据信躲在朝鲜驻马来西亚大使馆内的一名外交官。