KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — At a coffee shop in Bangsar, an affluent Kuala Lumpur suburb, the lunchtime crowd gossips and checks the news on their smartphones. Making the rounds is a YouTube video in which a bomoh — a local shaman — and two acolytes, sitting on a “magic carpet” in Kuala Lumpur International Airport, perform a ritual to find Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, missing since March 8.
马来西亚吉隆坡——在吉隆坡郊外富庶的社区孟沙(Bangsar)，午餐时间一家咖啡馆里的人群或是闲谈或是在智能手机上查阅新闻。一再受到关注的是一段YouTube上的视频：在吉隆坡国际机场里，本地的一名巫师(bomoh)在两名助手的陪同下，坐在“魔毯”上施展法术，寻找马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)从3月8日起消失的370航班。
At any other time the video, a perfect example of Malaysian self-mockery, would be a good-natured affirmation of our eccentric shortcomings. But these aren’t ordinary times. The search for Flight 370 has spotlighted the tensions beneath one of Asia’s success stories, and the video is an uncomfortable reminder of Malaysia’s troubled reality.
这段视频是马来西亚人拿自己开玩笑的绝好例子，如果是其他什么时间，这或许只是善意地指出我们怪诞的缺陷。但现在并非平时，搜寻370航班的过程突显了一段亚洲成功故事背后潜藏的问题，而这段视频令人不安地指出了马来西亚恼人的现实。
A British colony until 1957, Malaysia now has a G.D.P. per capita of over $10,000, roughly twice that of Thailand and three times that of Indonesia. Cesar Pelli’s glorious Petronas Twin Towers, briefly the tallest buildings in the world, illuminate the Kuala Lumpur skyline. In the adjoining mall, Western luxury brands are peddled to a booming middle class. Malaysia Airlines, whose fleet boasts the gigantic Airbus A380 and is one of a handful of 5-star-rated airlines, is central to the branding of this “New Malaysia.”
马来西亚在1957年前是英国殖民地，现在人均GDP超过1万美元，大约是泰国的两倍、印度尼西亚的三倍。西萨·佩里(Cesar Pelli)为马来西亚国家石油公司(Petronas)设计的双子塔曾一度是世界最高的建筑，点亮了吉隆坡的天际线。在与双子塔相连的购物中心里，商家向兴起的中产阶级兜售着西方的奢侈品牌。而马来西亚航空拥有空中客车(Airbus)硕大的A380机型，也是屈指可数的几家五星级航空公司之一，它对塑造这个“新马来西亚”的形象有着极其重要的作用。
Yet confidence in our leadership is brittle, and it takes little for frustrations to boil over. A coalition known as Barisan Nasional, or BN, led by the United Malays National Organization (the country’s ethnic-Malay governing party), has held power since independence, presiding over both economic growth and controversial policies that confer significant advantages in education, business and government on ethnic Malays, who make up some 60 percent of the population. The BN’s dominance has prompted allegations of corruption, cronyism and complacency, particularly regarding government-owned companies, such as Malaysia Airlines, which posted losses of over $350 million in 2013. Kuala Lumpur and Penang have seen dramatic rises in crime over the past decade. Some critics fault the BN’s policies for alienating minority groups and point to its seeming inability to manage a police force widely viewed as corrupt and ineffectual.
然而民众对我国领导层的信心却十分薄弱，很容易就能让他们的挫败感升至沸点。由马来族执政党马来民族统一机构（United Malays National Organization，简称巫统）领导的政党联盟国民阵线(Barisan Nasional)自从独立以来就一直掌权，既推动了经济增长，又实行了在教育、商业和政府领域向马来族给予极大优惠的争议性政策，马来族约占马来西亚人口的60%。国阵的主导地位引起了民众对腐败、任人唯亲、固步自封的指控，尤其是针对马航这样由政府所有的企业。2013年，马航亏损超过3.5亿美元（约合22亿元人民币）。过去十年，吉隆坡和槟城的犯罪率急剧升高，一些批评人士抨击国阵的政策排斥少数族裔，还指出国阵似乎没有能力管理警察队伍。民众广泛认为警队腐败无能。
Support for the government is eroding, but critics say that attempts to effect change are frequently stifled. A day before Flight 370 disappeared, Anwar Ibrahim, Malaysia’s opposition leader, was convicted on the rarely used charge of sodomy and sentenced to five years in prison. Many see the decision, which overturns a previous acquittal, as politically motivated. It leaves him ineligible to run in an approaching election in Selangor, the country’s richest and most populous state, where victory would have afforded him considerable national influence.
政府的支持面正在慢慢缩小，批评人士指出，推行变革的尝试常常受到阻挠。就在370航班消失一天前，马来西亚反对派领袖安瓦尔·易卜拉欣(Anwar Ibrahim)因鸡奸罪被判处五年监禁，虽然这个罪名在司法中极少使用。这个判决推翻了此前法庭做出的无罪裁定，很多人认为判处安瓦尔有罪是出于政治动机。马来西亚最富裕、人口最多的雪兰莪州即将举行选举，在这里胜选被认为具有全国性的影响力。被判刑后，安瓦尔就失去了在该州参选的资格。
Most people I speak to here acknowledge that an incident like the disappearance of Flight 370 is unprecedented and say they appreciate the monumental task facing the government. For many, however, the authorities’ ponderous response and mishandling of information mirror the way Malaysia is run. The offhand, sometimes defensive nature of the early press conferences, coupled with occasional attacks on the foreign media, are widely perceived as the arrogance of a government unaccustomed to global attention and accountability.
在这里，与我交流过的多数人都承认，像370航班失踪这样的事件是前所未有的，他们也了解政府面前的任务十分艰巨。然而在很多人看来，官方应对的迟缓、信息处理的混乱，都反映了马来西亚的治理方式。早期举行的新闻发布会上漫不经心、自我辩护的态度，再加上时而针对外国媒体做出的抨击，被广泛认为是这个不适应全球关注、不习惯面对全球问责的政府所表现出的傲慢姿态。
In addition to showcasing the country’s internal vulnerabilities, the disappearance of Flight 370 has underlined China’s increasing influence on Malaysia. That two-thirds of the passengers on Flight 370 were Mainland Chinese underscores the strength of current ties.
除了展现出马来西亚内部的脆弱之处，370航班的失联事件还显现了中国对马来西亚越来越强的影响。370航班三分之二的乘客都来自中国大陆，突显出现今两国间的紧密联系。
The impact of China’s economic rise is striking. Last October, a treaty signed by China’s president, Xi Jinping, elevated relations between the two countries to a “comprehensive strategic partnership” aimed at increasing military cooperation and tripling bilateral trade to $160 billion by 2017. Today, China is Malaysia’s largest trading partner; Malaysia is China’s third most important Asian market after Japan and South Korea.
中国经济的崛起所带来的影响是显著的。去年10月，中国国家主席习近平签署了一份将两国提升为“全面战略合作伙伴关系”的条约，旨在加强军事合作，并到2017年将双边贸易额增加两倍，至1600亿美元。现今，中国是马来西亚最大的贸易伙伴；而马来西亚则是中国的第三大亚洲市场，仅次于日本和韩国。