A Malaysian appeals court sentenced Anwar Ibrahim, the country’s opposition leader, on Friday to five years in prison on charges of sodomy, a conviction that critics described as an attempt to block the opposition’s ascendancy at a time when the governing party’s popularity is waning.
周五，马来西亚一家上诉法院以鸡奸罪判处该国反对派领导人安瓦尔·易卜拉欣(Anwar Ibrahim)五年监禁。批评人士称，法院之所以做出这一判决，是试图在执政党声望不断下降时，抑制反对派的上升势头。
Mr. Anwar, 66, was due to register for a local election next week, and a victory could have put him in charge of the country’s richest state, Selangor, which is under opposition control. Although Mr. Anwar is appealing the court decision, and he was released on bail Friday, the conviction bars him from office.
66岁的安瓦尔原定于下周登记参加地方选举，如果获胜，他将掌管该国最富裕的州——雪兰莪州，该州目前处于反对派的控制之下。虽然安瓦尔将对法院的裁决提起上诉，并于周五获得保释，但这项定罪意味着他不得担任公职。
“You have got what you wanted,” Mr. Anwar shouted in court, according to Malaysiakini, an online news agency.
据网络新闻机构“当今大马新闻网”(Malaysiakini)报道，安瓦尔在法院喊道，“你们如愿以偿了。”
Anal sex, or “carnal intercourse against the order of nature” as described in the criminal code, is punishable by 20 years in prison in Malaysia.
在马来西亚，进行肛交，或刑法中所说的“违背自然规律的性行为”，会被判处20年监禁。
In overturning a 2012 ruling that had acquitted Mr. Anwar, the appeals court said Friday that the lower court had mistakenly ruled that DNA evidence had been contaminated.
周五，这家上诉法院推翻了2012年判定安瓦尔无罪的判决，称初级法院错误地判定，DNA证据已被污染。
The complainant in the case, Mohamed Saiful Bukhari Azlan, was a former campaign worker for Mr. Anwar who filed the case in 2008.
该案的原告穆罕默德·赛义夫·布哈里·阿兹兰(Mohamed Saiful Bukhari Azlan）曾是安瓦尔竞选团队的工作人员，阿兹兰于2008年提起诉讼。
Mr. Anwar, a former deputy prime minister, was expelled from the governing party 16 years ago and has been locked in a personalized power struggle with his former political party.
前副总理安瓦尔16年前被执政党开除后，便陷入了与该党进行的个人化权力争斗之中。
He was first accused of sodomy in 1999 in a separate case and served six years in prison. That conviction was overturned in 2004, but the courts upheld charges that he had abused his power as a government official to cover up the allegations.
1999年，他在另一起案件中首次被控犯有鸡奸罪，并因此入狱服刑六年。这个判决在2004年被推翻，但法院维持了相关指控——安瓦尔作为政府官员滥用权力，去掩盖指控。
Unlike in the first case, when the Internet was still nascent, critics of the governing coalition known as Barisan Nasional, or BN, vented their anger at the decision on social media Friday.
与第一起案件不同——当时网络刚刚出现，批评执政联盟国民阵线(Barisan Nasional)的人士周五纷纷在社交媒体上泄愤，对这一判决表示不满。
“After more than 15 years, BN uses the same old tactic,” said Hannah Yeoh, a lawmaker with the opposition Democratic Action Party. “Shameful. Pathetic. Disgusting.”
“在超过15年之后，国民阵线还在玩同样的老把戏，”反对党民主行动党(Democratic Action Party)的议员杨巧双(Hannah Yeoh)说。“可耻，可悲，可恶。”
“Malaysians have thought they had come out of an era of circus politics,” read another comment, by Lee Ee May, a management consultant. “Today’s sentencing proved that we are still very much at the pinnacle of it.”
“马来西亚人曾以为他们走出了政治马戏时代，”管理顾问李怡美（Lee Ee May，音译）评论称。“今天的判决证明，我们在很大程度上，仍处于这个时代的水深火热之中。”
Mr. Anwar has periodically led large street demonstrations against the government since leaving the governing party, and opposition leaders called for a protest at a stadium near Kuala Lumpur on Friday.
安瓦尔自离开执政党后，偶尔会领导针对政府的大型街头示威活动，而反对派领导人周五号召人们在吉隆坡附近的一个体育场举行抗议活动。
Malaysia’s inspector general of police, Khalid Abu Bakar, warned that unauthorized street demonstrations were illegal and urged “all parties to be calm about the decision.”
马来西亚警察总长卡立·阿布·巴卡(Khalid Abu Bakar)警告称，未经许可的街头示威活动属于非法活动，并敦促“各方对判决保持冷静”。
The governing party, led by Prime Minister Najib Razak, has used paternalistic and mildly authoritarian laws to lead Malaysia since independence from Britain in 1957. The print media and broadcasters are closely monitored by the government, and the right to peaceful protest is circumscribed. Opposition forces say there are many irregularities in the election process.
自1957年摆脱英国统治以来，总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)领导的执政党使用家长式作风、且略显专制的法律法规领导马来西亚。平面媒体和电视台受到政府的严密监控，和平抗议的权利受到限制。反对派力量表示，选举过程中存在很多不法行为。
Jen Psaki, a State Department spokeswoman, said Friday that Mr. Anwar’s trial “raised a number of concerns regarding the rule of law and the independence of the courts.” President Obama is due to visit Malaysia in April.
美国国务院发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)周五表示，针对安瓦尔的审判“引发了很多有关法治及法院独立性的担忧”。奥巴马总统按计划将于4月份访问马来西亚。
Michael Vatikiotis, the director for Asia of the Center for Humanitarian Dialogue, said Friday’s decision was part of a “serious challenge” for democracy in Southeast Asia where “courts are used to override popular sovereignty and preserve the power status quo.”
人道主义对话中心(Center for Humanitarian Dialogue)亚洲地区负责人迈克尔·瓦提克奥蒂斯(Michael Vatikiotis)表示，周五的判决是东南亚国家民主制度面临的“严重挑战”的一部分，这些国家的“法院被用于压制人民主权，以维持权力现状。”
Across the region, “corruption charges are flung in all directions to undermine politicians,” he said. “Eventually there will be a popular backlash against the lack of judicial credibility.”
在该地区，“腐败指控被广泛用于打击政治人士，”他说。“最终，司法公信力的缺失将会引起民众的强烈反抗。”
The government said in a statement after the verdict that the case was “between two individuals and is a matter for the courts, not the government.”
法院作出裁决后，政府发表声明称，“这是两个人之间的案件，属于法庭事务范围，与政府无关。”
It said, “Malaysia has an independent judiciary.”
声明称，“马来西亚拥有独立的司法系统。”