PARIS — Investigators and the families of those who were aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 now have what they have sought for more than a year — the first tangible trace of the vanished airplane.
巴黎——调查人员和马航MH370机上人员家属寻求了一年多的东西，现在有了眉目——这架失踪飞机的第一个确凿痕迹已经找到。
There are “very strong presumptions” that the airplane part that washed ashore last week on the French island of Réunion in the western Indian Ocean came from the missing Boeing 777, an official said on Wednesday at a Paris news conference after experts inspected the object.
本周三，一名官员在巴黎的新闻发布会上表示，专家在检查后认为，上周被冲上西印度洋法属留尼旺岛海岸的那块飞机残骸，来自那架失踪的波音777的“可能性很大”。
A few minutes before the news conference, Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia went further, declaring that the object definitely came from the plane, which mysteriously disappeared in March 2014 with 239 people aboard.
在新闻发布会开始的数分钟之前，马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)更进一步，宣布这块残骸肯定来自于2014年3月载着239人神秘消失的那架飞机。
A person involved in the investigation said, however, that experts from Boeing and the National Transportation Safety Board who had seen the object, a piece of what is known as a flaperon, were not yet fully satisfied, and called for further analysis.
但是，一名参与调查的人士说，波音公司(Boeing)和美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)一些专家见过这块被称为襟副翼的残骸，他们尚未得出最终结论，并要求做进一步分析。
Their doubts were based on a modification to the flaperon part that did not appear to exactly match what they would expect from airline maintenance records, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and requested anonymity.
因为没有获得公开讨论此事的授权，此人不愿具名。他表示，专家们之所以怀有疑虑，主要是因为这块襟副翼上的某处改动似乎与航空公司的维修记录并不完全匹配。
French and Malaysian officials did not share the Americans’ hesitation, though, not least because no other Boeing 777 is unaccounted for.
但法国和马来西亚的官员不像美国人那么犹豫不决，尤其是因为没有其他波音777下落不明。
“Today, 515 days since the plane disappeared, it is with a very heavy heart that I must tell you that an international team of experts have conclusively confirmed that the aircraft debris found on Réunion Island is indeed from MH370,” Mr. Najib said in a televised statement broadcast in the early hours of Thursday in Malaysia.
“今天，在这架飞机失踪515天之后，我怀着非常沉重的心情告诉大家，一个国际专家小组已经证实，在留尼旺岛上发现的飞机残骸确实来自 MH370，”本周四一早，纳吉布在马来西亚播出的电视讲话中表示。
At the news conference in Paris, Serge Mackowiak, the deputy Paris prosecutor, discussed what officials and experts from France, Malaysia, Australia and the United States had learned from examining the flaperon part in an aviation laboratory in Toulouse, France.
在巴黎的新闻发布会上，巴黎副检察官塞尔日·马科维亚克(Serge Mackowiak)详细说明了来自法国、马来西亚、澳大利亚及美国的官员和专家在法国图卢兹航空实验室中对飞机襟副翼进行检测之后得到的结论。
He said representatives from Boeing had confirmed that it came from a Boeing 777, based on its size, color, joint structure and other technical characteristics. He also said that “technical documentation” provided by Malaysia Airlines had enabled experts to establish “common technical characteristics” between the debris and Flight 370’s flaperons.
他表示，波音的代表根据该襟副翼的大小、颜色、连接构造及其他技术特征确认它属于波音777飞机。他还表示，马航提供的“技术文件”使得专家们能够确定该残骸与370航班的襟副翼有着“共同的技术特征”。
Boeing said in a statement that its technicians were assisting in the analysis of the part, but declined to comment on the results of the examination.
波音发表声明称，公司技术人员协助了残骸分析工作，但拒绝就调查结果置评。
The person involved in the investigation said that no serial or other unique identifying number had been found, making the job of conclusively identifying the object more complicated. The person also said that so far, no burn marks or other evidence of physical damage had been found that might provide clues about the circumstances in which the plane went down.
上述参与调查的人士表示，没有发现序列号或其他独有的编号，使得最终的确认工作变得更加复杂。此人还表示，到目前为止，没有发现有助于人们了解飞机坠落时情形的烧痕或其他物理损坏证据。
On the night of March 8, 2014, when Flight 370 was bound for Beijing from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, it veered off its planned course less than an hour after takeoff and stopped communicating with ground controllers. Radar data and satellite signals show that it turned to fly west across the Malay Peninsula and then south over the Indian Ocean, where it is presumed to have run out of fuel and crashed in very deep water, killing everyone aboard.
2014年3月8日夜间，370航班从马来西亚吉隆坡起飞前往北京， 在起飞不到一个小时后，飞机偏离原定航线，并停止与地面控制人员通讯。雷达数据和卫星信号显示，飞机转而向西飞越马来半岛，然后又向南飞至印度洋上空，据推测飞机在那里坠入了深海，导致机上人员全部遇难。
Months of extensive air and sea search efforts failed to find any trace of the aircraft in the sea. The authorities in Malaysia and Australia, which is leading the search, reacted cautiously after the discovery on Réunion.
大范围的空中和海上搜寻行动持续了数月，但迄今为止仍未找到飞机的踪迹。在留尼旺岛发现残骸后，领导搜寻行动的马来西亚及澳大利亚当局做出了谨慎的回应。
After a year of searches and false leads, relatives of the passengers greeted the news with caution. State news media in China, where more than half the passengers were from, warned that even if the debris proved to have come from Flight 370, the body of the plane was still missing.
经过一年的搜寻，一条条的线索被掐断，乘客家属也在用谨慎的态度对待相关新闻。飞机上超过一半的乘客来自中国。中国的官方新闻媒体提醒称，即便该残骸被证实来自370航班，飞机机身仍然失踪。
But confidence grew as it became increasingly clear that the object was a part of a Boeing 777 flaperon, a movable section of the wing that helps stabilize the plane while flying at low speeds and during takeoff and landing.
但该物体属波音777襟副翼一部分的判断正渐渐明确起来，信心也随之增加。襟副翼是机翼上的可活动装置，可以在飞机低速飞行及降落、起飞期间帮助稳定飞机。
Réunion was thrust into the international spotlight after the discovery, prompting many on the island to scour its beaches for more clues. No other debris has been confirmed as coming from the flight, though one other object — apparently remnants of a piece of luggage — was sent to France for examination. Mr. Mackowiak, the deputy prosecutor, said on Wednesday that it had not yet been analyzed.
发现残骸后，留尼旺岛成为国际社会的关注焦点，促使岛上的很多居民到海滩搜寻更多线索。没有其他残骸被确认为属于该航班，尽管另有一个物体——似乎是行李箱残留物——也被送往法国进行检测。副检察官马科维亚克在周三表示，尚未对该物体进行分析。
Experts have warned that the complex movements of ocean currents and sea winds over so long a time would make it extremely difficult to trace the debris back to locate other wreckage.
专家们警告说，洋流和海风的运动很复杂，这块残骸的漂流路线受其影响的时间如此之长，要据此循迹来定位其他残骸是极为困难的。
Officials said the flaperon part found on Réunion, made from composite materials with a lightweight honeycomb interior, could float for months, unlike many other parts of the plane, which are most likely at the bottom of the ocean.
官员们说，在留尼旺岛发现的襟副翼部分由复合材料制成，拥有轻质的蜂窝式内部结构，可以漂浮数月之久，而飞机上的其他很多部分极有可能已经沉入了海底。
Australia is leading the underwater search for the plane, while the Malaysian authorities are conducting the broader investigation into the plane’s disappearance. French prosecutors have begun an investigation of their own because there were four French citizens on the flight, and the flaperon part is being examined in France because it washed up on French territory.
澳大利亚正在领导这架飞机的水下搜索工作，同时马来西亚当局在对该飞机的失踪进行广泛调查。由于飞机上有四名法国公民，法国检察官也开启了自己的调查。那块襟副翼残骸正在法国接受检查，因为它被冲到了法国的领土上。
Warren Truss, the deputy prime minister of Australia, said in Sydney on Wednesday that the discovery did not change calculations of where to look for the plane. His country’s national science agency has confirmed that material from the current search area could have been carried by ocean currents to Réunion, thousands of miles west of the remote stretch of deep ocean where the plane is believed to have gone down, Mr. Truss said.
澳大利亚副总理瓦伦·特拉斯(Warren Truss)本周三在悉尼表示，这一发现并没有改变飞机搜寻工作中的位置推算。特拉斯说，澳大利亚科学机构已经证实，残骸确实有可能是从目前的搜索区域漂流到留尼旺岛的。据信飞机沉入了一片人迹罕至的深海区域，留尼旺岛在该区域以西数千英里处。
Material could also have reached “other locations, as part of a progressive dispersal of floating debris through the action of ocean currents and wind,” Mr. Truss said in the statement, which was issued hours before the announcement about the examination of the wing part.
特拉斯在声明中说，“在洋流和风力的作用下，漂浮物逐渐扩散，在这个过程中，残骸可能也已经到达了其他地方。该声明是在机翼部分检查结果公布数小时之前发表的。
“For this reason, thorough and methodical search efforts will continue to be focused on the defined underwater search area, covering 120,000 square kilometers, in the southern Indian Ocean,” Mr. Truss said. That area, equivalent to about 46,000 square miles, was expanded in April by the authorities.
“出于这个原因，我们仍将在当前划定的水下区域开展彻底的、有条不紊的搜索工作。这块区域位于南印度洋，面积为12万平方公里，”特拉斯说。该区域是有关部门今年4月扩大搜索范围后划定的。
By Wednesday afternoon, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau said that about half the search area had been combed, and that there would be a short break while the two search vessels returned to port for supplies.
周三下午，澳大利亚交通安全局(Australian Transport Safety Bureau)表示，这片区域中的大约一半已经被仔细搜索过，之后将进行短暂的休整，同时两艘搜查船将返港补给。