SEPANG, Malaysia — The Malaysian authorities have asked the Federal Bureau of Investigation for help in recovering data that was deleted from a home flight simulator belonging to one of the pilots of the missing Malaysia Airlines jet, in the hope that it will provide some clue to what happened to the plane.
马来西亚雪邦——马来西亚政府已向美国联邦调查局(Federal Bureau of Investigation)提出让其帮助恢复数据的请求，以期能给失踪的马航客机提供一些线索，这些数据被从属于失踪飞机的一名飞行员的家中飞行模拟器上删除。
The expansion of the American role in the investigation came as governments struggled to narrow down the vast search zone for the plane, which stretches across two hemispheres, and as relatives of some of the 227 missing passengers angrily protested the Malaysian government’s handling of the so-far fruitless hunt.
美国对调查所起作用扩大之时，各国政府也在努力缩小跨越两个半球的巨大搜索区，同时，227名机上失踪乘客的家属对马来西亚政府处理事件的方式表示愤怒抗议，搜索工作迄今仍毫无结果。
Investigators have said the plane’s extraordinary diversion from its intended course — the aircraft shifted from a northeastward path across the Gulf of Thailand to a westward one across the Malaysian peninsula — was probably carried out by someone on the plane who had aviation experience. Attention has focused on the two pilots: Capt. Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, and his junior officer, Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27. The Malaysian police, who found that Mr. Zaharie had built a flight simulator in his home, said on Wednesday that some data was erased from the simulator on Feb. 3, more than a month before the ill-fated flight.
调查人员曾说，这架飞机不同寻常地偏离原定航线，很有可能是机上有飞行经验的人操纵的结果，这架飞机在飞越泰国湾时偏离原定的向北飞行方向，转向西越过马来西亚半岛。人们的注意力一直聚集在机上两名飞行员身上：53岁的机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)与27岁的副驾驶法里克·阿卜杜勒·哈米德(Fariq Abdul Hamid)。马来西亚警方在扎哈里家中找到一个飞行模拟器，警方周三表示，这个模拟器上有些数据在2月3日被删除，那是在飞机失踪的1个多月以前。
“The experts are looking at what are the logs, what has been cleared,” Khalid Abu Bakar, inspector general of the Malaysian police, told reporters at a news conference in Sepang, on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur. He declined to comment further.
马来西亚警察总长哈立德·阿布·巴卡尔(Khalid Abu Bakar)在吉隆坡郊外的雪邦召开的一次新闻发布会上说，“专家们正在查看日志，看看哪些被删除了。”他拒绝做出进一步评论。
Because of evidence suggesting that whoever diverted the missing plane, a Boeing 777-200, knew how to disable the plane’s communications systems and make course changes, the data recorded in Mr. Zaharie’s flight simulator may shed light on whether he was involved, and may have rehearsed actions before the flight. But building and using flight simulators at home is a popular hobby among aviation enthusiasts, and the deletion of data from his simulator may have been routine housekeeping with no significance. Mr. Zaharie did not keep his simulator a secret: he posted a video on YouTube more than a year ago showing him sitting in front of it.
因为有证据显示，改变这架波音777-200型飞机航线的人，知道如何让飞机的通信系统停止工作，也知道如何改变航线，扎哈里家中的飞行模拟器上的数据可能会给调查提供线索，包括他是否与飞机失踪有关、是否可能在飞行前模拟过有关操作。但是，安装和使用家中飞行模拟器，是许多航空爱好者的爱好，而且从他的模拟器上删除数据，可能只是例行清理工作，没有别的意义。扎哈里没有对他的模拟器保密：他曾在一年多前，把一段显示他坐在模拟器前的视频上传到Facebook。
Hishammuddin Hussein, the Malaysian defense minister and acting transportation minister, emphasized that “the passengers, the pilots and the crew remain innocent until proven otherwise.”
马来西亚国防部长兼代理交通部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)强调，“在没有证据之前，乘客、飞行员和工作人员都是清白的。”
He said the authorities had received background-check information from the home countries of all the passengers on the plane except Ukraine and Russia. “So far, no information of significance on any passengers has been found,” he said.
他说，当局已经收到除了乌克兰和俄罗斯以外的、所有乘客所在国提供的背景调查信息。他说，“到目前为止，没有在任何乘客身上发现有意义的信息。”
To speed its efforts, the F.B.I. will probably make copies of the simulator’s hard drive and have its contents digitally relayed back to agents and analysts in the United States who specialize in retrieving deleted computer files. “Right now, it’s the best chance we have of finding something,” said a senior law enforcement official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the investigation. Unless the pilot used extremely sophisticated technology to erase files, the F.B.I. is likely to be able to retrieve them.
为了加快工作速度，联邦调查局可能会将模拟器硬盘做几个备份，并把其内容用数字方式传回美国，交给专门从事恢复电脑被删除数据的机构和分析人员进行处理。一位高级执法官员说，“这是我们目前仅有的找到点东西的机会。”由于这项调查的敏感性，他要求不具名。除非这个飞行员使用非常高级的技术删除数据，联邦调查局应该有可能恢复这些数据。
It was not clear whether the Malaysians have asked American law enforcement officials for help with any other parts of their inquiry. The Malaysians have kept American investigators at a distance since the plane vanished in the early hours of March 8, angering some lawmakers in Washington who believe the F.B.I. should have been playing a larger role in the investigation from the beginning. A small team of F.B.I. agents in Malaysia has received briefings on the investigation, but have not been asked to help with the inquiry.
还不清楚马来西亚是否要求美国的执法人员为调查的其他环节提供帮助。自从飞机于3月8日凌晨失踪之后，马来西亚一直与美国调查人员保持距离，这让华盛顿的一些立法者感到恼怒，他们认为联邦调查局本应该在在调查的一开始就起更大的作用。在马来西亚的一个联邦调查局小组一直收到调查情况的通报，但没有被要求协助调查。
The 12 days since the plane, Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 bound for Beijing from Kuala Lumpur, disappeared from air controllers’ screens have been troubled by confusion that has compounded the anguish of family members waiting for news.
马航370航班在从吉隆坡飞往北京途中，从航空管制系统的显示屏上消失已有12天了，这些天里，混乱一直困扰着人们，加剧了家庭成员等待消息的痛苦。
While investigators grapple with the minutiae of machines and people on the missing plane, searchers are confronted with sobering limits on their reach across huge areas of sea and land. The plane’s whereabouts remain little more than a matter of educated guesswork, based on satellite signals and other data gleaned by analysts.
在调查人员尽力解决机器的技术细节问题、想方设法地平息人的问题的同时，搜寻者们则面临着在巨大洋面和陆地进行搜索的严峻挑战。这架飞机的下落仍不过是基于一定知识的猜测，有限的知识来自卫星信号、以及分析者找到的其它数据。
The United States has employed its constellation of spy satellites in the search since its earliest stages, and is now using the satellites’ ability to capture high-resolution images to help narrow down the search area, a senior American military official said.
美国军方的一名高官表示，自从搜索的初始阶段，美国就启用了其间谍卫星网，现在正在利用这些卫星拍摄高清图片的能力，来帮助缩小搜索范围。
The satellite imagery would be most useful in detecting any debris floating on the ocean; it would probably not spot an airliner in flight at cruising altitude.
卫星图像对检测漂浮在洋面上的杂物最有帮助，但大概不会发现在巡航高度飞行的飞机。
The senior military official said the Malaysians were now focusing more on the southernmost of the two possible regions where the airplane could be because of a lack of evidence that it had flown over land toward the northern region.
这名高级军官表示，马来西亚方面目前已把重点转向两个可能区域的最南端，因为没有证据显示这架飞机飞往北方的陆路地区，所以南部的区域是飞机可能在的地方。
On Wednesday, Australian organizers said that they had narrowed down their search area by half, though it was still huge — an expanse of deep ocean the size of Italy.
周三，澳大利亚组织搜寻的人说，他们已经将搜索范围缩小一半，但这个缩小后的范围仍然很大，这片深海区域的面积相当于意大利国土的大小。
John Young, general manager for the Australian Maritime Safety Authority’s emergency response division, said the focus had been narrowed using new data analysis of the plane’s likely fuel consumption.
澳大利亚海事安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)应急响应部门负责人 约翰·扬(John Young)说，通过对这架飞机可能的燃油消耗情况进行新的数据分析，已经将搜索范围减小。
The new area of focus in the Australian-led part of the search covers 89,000 square nautical miles, and is roughly 1,200 nautical miles southwest of Perth, Mr. Young said, adding that nothing had been found in the areas covered so far. The searchers have a good view of the water and have been able to spot marine life, “so we know we can make sightings, but there were no results relevant to the search,” Mr. Young said.
澳大利亚领导的搜索工作的新重点范围，覆盖了89000平方海里，距离珀斯西南部约有3200公里，扬说，并补充说，在已经搜索过的区域里，目前为止没有发现任何东西。搜寻者在这片水域有很高的能见度，能够看到海洋生物。扬说，“因此我们知道可以看到东西，但是还没有看到与这次搜寻有关的东西。”
Like other officials involved in the multinational search, Mr. Young stressed the sheer difficulty of finding the plane, let alone possible survivors, more than a week and a half after the jet disappeared.
与其他参加这次国际搜寻活动的官员一样，扬强调说，在飞机失踪已经一周半之后，寻找这架飞机的工作难度极大，更不用说找到可能的幸存者了。
“We still have grave fears for the safety of anyone that may have managed to escape the aircraft in the southern ocean,” Mr. Young said. “It remains a big area. There is a lot of work to be done yet.”
扬说，“我们仍十分担心可能在南部大洋上逃出这架飞机的任何人的安全。这是很大的一片区域。还有很多要做的工作。”