CHÂTEAU-THIERRY, France — Fifty miles to Paris. That was all that separated a hardened German Army from, perhaps, the end of the Great War. By early 1918, the Germans were rolling through northern France, and French commanders feared they were planning a decisive attack against the capital. First, though, they had to cross a ribbon of green water known as the Marne. And traverse a small forest known as Belleau Wood.
法国蒂耶里堡——此处距巴黎仅50英里，而正是这50英里，阻挡了德军迈向一战胜利的铁蹄。至1918年初，德军大举入侵法国北部，法军指挥官担心德国正在预谋对法首都的致命一击。但是，要入侵巴黎，德军需先渡过碧绿的马恩河，再穿越一个名叫贝洛林苑(Belleau Wood)的小树林。
In their way were divisions of exhausted but experienced French and British troops, along with their new, largely untested allies from the United States. Months earlier, a war-weary Paris had welcomed the arriving American soldiers with parades and ecstatic relief, believing the Yanks would swing the war for the Allies. But French commanders were uncertain how these raw soldiers, many arriving without weapons, would fare against a German Army that had fought in bloody trenches for four years.
抵挡德军的，是已精疲力竭但身经百战的法英军队，还有他们的新盟友——壮大强劲但尚未经受考验的美国军队。数月前，已经被战争搞得焦头烂额的巴黎市民，欣喜若狂地上街游行，欢迎美国大兵的到来，坚信战局将就此扭转。然而，法军军官们却无法这样信心满怀，这些有的连武器都没带来的初生牛犊，如何与在战壕中浴血恶战了四年的德军抗衡，他们并不看好。
World War I was the first time an American army had fought in a European war, and they were being delivered to the doorstep of a slaughterhouse. Their orders at the Marne were straightforward: Hold the line. Stop them.
一战是美军在欧战中崭露头角的舞台，他们被直接送到了血雨腥风的残酷前线。在马恩，他们接到的任务直截了当：死守防线，阻击敌人。
They did. Today, a century after the outbreak of World War I, the Second Battle of the Marne is considered the pivotal battle of the First World War, as Allied troops blunted the German advance and started the counteroffensive that would ultimately win the war. It also became the battle that helped shape the legend and character of the modern American military, especially the Marines, and signaled the arrival of the United States as a modern military power.
他们做到了。在一战爆发百年后的今天，马恩河第二次战役被视为一战的关键战役。在这里，协约国军队挫败了德军吞没欧洲的嚣张气焰，由防守转为反攻，并最终赢取了战争的胜利。而这也正是塑造了现代美军（尤其海军陆战队）传奇形象、标志美国成为现代军事强国的一场战役。
“It is the turning point of the First World War,” said Michael S. Neiberg, a professor at the United States Army War College in Carlisle, Pa., and an authority on World War I.
一战权威、美国陆军军事学院（坐落于宾夕法尼亚州卡莱尔）教授迈克尔·S·内伯格(Michael S. Neiberg)说，“这正是一战态势的转折点。”
It marked the start of an era in which the United States would become the guarantor of security in Western Europe and eventually the world’s lone superpower. It is a role that from its earliest stages prompted intense divisions at home and abroad and these days resonates from the sectarian conflicts of the Middle East to the Ukraine-Russia border to the disputed waters off China’s coast.
第二次马恩河战役为历史翻开了新篇章。由此，美国成为西欧的保护神，继而成为世界警察。这样的角色从一开始便引起了国内外的轩然大波，如今仍在中东民族宗教冲突、俄乌边境争端、中国沿岸领海主权等问题的介入上引发众议。
A century after a series of interlocking alliances plunged Europe into a war that drew in the United States, NATO continues to navigate between its commitment to mutual security and the risks of taking too hard a line against an increasingly assertive Russia over places like Crimea and Donetsk, Ukraine. With the American public exhausted by 13 years of war, President Obama is seeking to define a less interventionist foreign policy, but often finds, as President Woodrow Wilson did 100 years ago, that no one else is willing to step up when global stability is at risk.
一个世纪前，一荣俱荣、一损俱损的联盟策略使欧洲全面陷入战争的漩涡，美国也伺时开赴欧洲战场。一个世纪后，北约继续在履行维护共同安全的使命和与俄罗斯硬碰硬（关于乌克兰境内克里米亚、顿涅茨克等问题上）的风险中左右周旋。13年的战事让美国公众厌烦疲惫，奥巴马总统也在寻找一条更加内敛的对外政策，而他的难题也正是100年前伍德罗·威尔逊总统(President Woodrow Wilson)面临的情形：当世界稳定受到威胁的危急关头，并没有其他国家愿意挺身而出。
The battlefield on which the American Century arguably began is bucolic today. The Marne River flows placidly westward until it joins the Seine en route to Paris. The killing fields of World War I are now pastoral and immaculate, rolling green and yellow quilts of wheat and canola, or hillsides covered with the neatly manicured rows of vineyards in the Champagne region. To stand on a hilltop is to see a horizon stretching for miles, clouds throwing shadows on the pastures or sunlight breaking through in yellow shafts, the archetype of the idyllic French countryside.
当年开启了可谓“美国世纪”的硝烟战场，现在已是一派田园秀丽。马恩河静静地向西流淌，汇入塞纳河，再一直流向巴黎。一战时这里曾腥风血雨，而今一派悠然闲致。田间铺展着麦黄蔬绿，齐整的葡萄藤在香槟地区的山坡上绵延。如果你站在山坡上放眼眺望，便可将辽阔无垠的天地尽收眼底。几道阳光，透过云卷云舒的缝隙，洒向碧绿的牧场。这即是经典的法式田园画面。
It is hard to imagine that nearly 300,000 men died or were wounded here almost a century ago.
眼前的美景，让人很难联想到，近一个世纪前，曾有30万人死伤于此。
“With time, people forget,” said Didier Blanchard, who owns a restaurant filled with World War I paraphernalia in the small village of Mancy. “We no longer have a World War I soldier who is alive.”
在曼西(Mancy)这座小村庄里，迪迪埃·布兰查德(Didier Blanchard)经营着一个摆满了一战旧物的餐厅。提起战争，他有些戚戚然：“时光滚滚向前，而记忆渐渐尘封在历史里了。如今健在的一战老兵连一个也没有了。”
Yet there are reminders of the carnage. People occasionally find shards of shrapnel in the trunks of felled trees. Farmers often must call in a munitions squad to remove undetonated explosives from their fields. Overlooking Château-Thierry is the monument commemorating the Americans who fought at the Marne. Outside the city are two American military cemeteries — the Aisne-Marne and the Oise-Aisne, both maintained by the United States government — which together have rows of white tombstones for more than 9,000 men and women who were sent off to a distant war and never came back.
然而，当年的血战还是留下了清晰的印记。人们时而会在砍倒的树干上发现弹片，农民们也常要请来拆弹小组，来清理没有引爆的炸弹。为纪念在马恩河浴血奋战的美军而建立的纪念堂，与蒂耶里堡遥相对望。城外有“埃纳－马恩河”、“瓦兹－埃纳”两处美军公墓，均由美国政府维护。一排排的白色墓碑下，安息着9000名有去无回的美国战士。
The United States entered World War I in 1917 with an untested force whose leader, General John J. Pershing, nicknamed “Black Jack,” was opposed to fighting under a French command. He relented when the Germans began major offensives in the spring of 1918 to try to win the war before the Allies could gather strength from the arriving American forces. They retook an important ridge position at the Chemin des Dames, and then blitzed another 40 or 50 miles to the banks of the Marne.
美国于1917年加入一战，之前尚未经受过大战的考验。率领军队的约翰·约瑟夫·潘兴将军(General John J. Pershing)，绰号“黑桃杰克”，坚决反对在法军的指挥下作战。不过1918年春，德军大肆进攻、企图在协约国得到美军援力前速战速决的危急时刻，他在这个原则上做出了让步。协约国军队收复了贵妇小径(Chemin des Dames)的一个重要高地，并以闪电战迅速夺回沿马恩河四、五十英里的地域。
Four years earlier, with the Germans sweeping toward the capital, the French stopped them in the First Battle of the Marne as taxi drivers from Paris ferried reinforcements to the front. That victory led to four years of bloody stalemate in the trenches, but in 1918 the Germans were again on the banks of the river. Historians now doubt that the Germans intended to make an immediate frontal blitz on Paris, but a German victory at the Marne could have been devastating for the Allies.
四年前，德军横扫法国，首都告急。巴黎出租车司机一趟趟往前线运送增兵，法军终于在第一次马恩河战役中阻挡了德军铁蹄。这一战的胜利，带来了长达四年、僵持不下的战局，双方死伤无数，血流成河。1918年，德军再次兵临马恩河岸。如今，历史学家对德军当时是否打算以闪电战袭击巴黎持保留意见，但如果在马恩河获胜的是德军，那么这对协约国的打击将是毁灭性的。
Under French command, the Americans were thrust into combat: the United States Army’s Third Infantry Division fought so ferociously that it earned the enduring nickname “Rock of the Marne.” National Guardsmen from across the United States fought together in the 42nd Infantry Division and are memorialized in the French wheat fields with a statue of a soldier carrying a dead comrade. And in a segregated American military, black troops defied the racial stereotyping of the era and fought with bravery and distinction.
在法军指挥下，美军迅速投入战场。美陆军第三步兵师骁勇善战，赢得了“马恩河磐石”之美誉。一尊怀抱死去战友的战士塑像伫立在麦田里，纪念着美国陆军第四十二步兵师，这支由美国各州国民警卫队队员组成的步兵师，曾在此并肩奋战，浴血杀敌。在那个种族歧视严重的年代里，单独编制的黑人部队英勇卓越，给予种族成见最强劲的回击。
The Americans entered the war reluctantly and, once it was over, largely retreated into their own problems for the next two decades, until the outbreak of World War II. But that initial American intervention created a connection here, one that still lingers despite all of the complicated history since. Tony Legendre, a retired English teacher here who has spent years researching the American role at the Marne, recalls visiting the United States for a month during the 1960s. When he brought back a Sears catalog, Mr. Legendre said people in Château-Thierry were amazed. “Many people, I think, still dream a little of the States,” he said.
参加一战并非美国本意。战后，大多数的美国人回到了他们自己的现实问题中，一过就是20年，直到二战爆发。可是，美国关键时刻的拔刀相助令其与欧洲建立了一种新的关系，尽管之后的历史错综复杂，但这种新关系至今仍然藕断丝连。当地已退休的英语老师托尼·勒让德(Tony Legendre)对马恩河战役中美军的角色有着多年的研究，他回忆起自己上世纪60年代的美国之行。勒让德先生说，他当时带了一本美国西尔斯百货商店(Sears)的商品目录册回来，蒂耶里堡的人们看了都惊叹不已。他说，“我想，直到今天，好多人还是对美国满怀憧憬。”