HONG KONG — The police in Malaysia said on Monday that they had found mass graves on the country’s border with Thailand that may hold the remains of migrants who died in camps run by smugglers.
香港——马来西亚警方周一表示，他们在该国与泰国交界的边境地区发现多处乱葬岗。那里埋葬的可能是在人口走私者开设的营地中死亡的移民。
Inspector General Khalid Abu Bakar of the Malaysian police said that more than 139 graves were discovered, some with more than one body, in an investigation that began May 11. The graves were found in 28 camps in the state of Perlis, in Malaysia’s far north.
马来西亚警察总长卡立·阿布·巴卡(Khalid Abu Bakar)表示，他们从5月11日开始进行调查，发现了逾139个坟墓，其中一些坟墓里掩埋的尸体不只一具。坟墓是在玻璃市州的28个营地中发现的，玻璃市州位于马来西亚极北端。
The area is not far from camps in the Thai province of Songkhla, where the Thai authorities uncovered graves containing more than 30 bodies in early May.
那里距离泰国宋卡府的营地不远，泰国当局于5月初发现了这些葬有30多具尸体的坟墓。
The latest discovery of mass graves comes amid a crisis as thousands of migrants have arrived in Malaysia and Indonesia by boat in recent weeks, and thousands more may still be at sea.
警方发现最新的乱葬岗时，一场移民危机正在爆发。数千名移民于最近几周乘船到达马来西亚和印度尼西亚，可能还有数千人正在海上飘摇。
The Malaysian authorities have not confirmed the identities of the dead, but they are believed to be Rohingya people from Myanmar, who have long faced discrimination and been deprived of basic rights, and Bangladeshis seeking work in Malaysia.
马来西亚当局尚未确认死者的身份，但据信他们是来自缅甸的罗辛亚人和准备在马来西亚找工作的孟加拉国人。罗辛亚人长期遭到歧视，并被剥夺了基本人权。
“I am deeply concerned with graves found on Malaysian soil purportedly connected to people smuggling,” the Malaysian prime minister, Najib Razak, said on Twitter. “We will find those responsible.”
“我非常重视在马来西亚发现的坟墓，那些坟墓据称与人口走私有关，”马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)在Twitter上写道，“我们将会找出罪魁祸首。”
The Malaysian Home Ministry denied this month that any migrant holding camps or mass graves existed on its side of the border with Thailand.
马来西亚内政部(Home Ministry)本月曾否认马来亚西与泰国的边境地区，存在容纳移民的营地或乱葬岗。
Migration researchers say that smugglers bringing people from Myanmar and Bangladesh have often held them in camps while they demanded further payments. The migrants are often malnourished, and the smugglers beat and physically abuse them to put pressure on their family members to send money.
移民问题研究人员表示，那些帮助移民离开缅甸和孟加拉国的蛇头，通常会将他们关押在营地，同时索取更多酬金。这些移民通常营养不良，蛇头会殴打、虐待他们，并迫使他们的家人寄钱。
“When they initially get on the ship from Myanmar, they think $200 is the cost all the way to Malaysia,” said Amy Smith, an executive director of Fortify Rights, a human rights group focusing on Southeast Asia. “It’s only when you enter Thai waters and are brought to a remote island or jungle camp under armed guard” that the migrants are “told to call family members in Malaysia, call family in Myanmar.”
“他们最初在缅甸上船时以为总共花200美元（约合1240元人民币）就可以到达马来西亚，”巩固人权(Fortify Rights)组织的执行理事艾米·史密斯(Amy Smith)说。“直到进入泰国海域，然后被带到偏远岛屿，或者有武装守卫把守的丛林营地时”，这些移民“才被要求给在马来西亚、缅甸的家人打电话”。该人权组织主要关注东南亚地区。