Question:
问：
What diseases can you really get from toilet seats?
人到底会从坐便器上感染哪些疾病？
Answer:
答：
People really do fear toilet seats. One 1991 British survey of 528 women at an ob-gyn clinic found that 85 percent said they crouched over public toilets while urinating, and 12 percent papered the seat. Only 2 percent sat all the way down.
人们确实非常担心坐便器的安全。1991年英国的一项研究在调查了一妇产科诊所的528名女性后发现，85%的人称她们在使用公厕时会蹲着小便，12%的人会在坐便器上铺一层纸，只有2%的人会直接坐在坐便器上。
But what diseases can you really get?
然而，坐便器到底会让人感染哪些疾病呢？
In theory, lots. Realistically, toilet seats are relatively low risk compared to many other surfaces.
从理论上讲，这样的疾病有很多。但实际上，与许多其它表面相比，坐便器传播疾病的风险相对较低。
The first thing to stop worrying about is sexually transmitted diseases. There is no medical evidence that anyone has ever picked up a venereal disease from a toilet seat. But there is a reason that myth has persisted for generations.
首先不需要再担心的是性传播疾病。因为其实并无医学证据表明曾有人从坐便器上感染过性病。但这条谣言之所以会一代代流传是有其原因的。
When confronted by an angry partner wanting to know how it is that he or she suddenly has symptoms of syphilis, gonorrhea, pubic lice or any other unpleasantry, it is much easier to answer “I have no idea, dear — I must have gotten it from a toilet seat” than it is to tell the truth.
当愤怒的伴侣找上来对峙，想知道他或她为何会突然出现梅毒、淋病、阴虱或任何其他恶心的症状时，回答：“我不知道，亲爱的——我肯定是从坐便器上染上的”总比坦承真相要容易得多。
People almost always get those diseases the old-fashioned way — from other people. Most require that a dose large enough to infect be deposited inside the vagina or anus, which are lined with hospitable cells. While it’s true that lice can travel on towels and clothes, they find cold hard surfaces difficult to survive on. Lice need human warmth, and their claw-like feet do not attach to smooth plastic, wood or porcelain.
人会患传染病基本上都是通过老途径——被其他人传染。大部分疾病的感染都要求阴道或肛门内壁（也就是易感细胞的所在处）接触到剂量足够大的病原体。虽然虱子确实可能藏在毛巾和衣服里，它们在冷而坚硬的表面上却难以生存。虱子渴求人体的温暖，而且它们的脚爪无法附着在光滑的塑料、木材或陶瓷之上。
On the other hand, hard surfaces can hold other bacteria and viruses, sometimes for days.
另一方面，坚硬的表面上可能存在其他的细菌和病毒，且它们有时可以存活数日。
Studies — some done in hospital bathrooms — have found dangerous strains on toilet seats, including antibiotic-resistant staphylococcus (one of several “flesh-eating bacteria”), norovirus (the “cruise ship bug”), E. coli, shigella and streptococcus. In theory, even Ebola could be picked up from a toilet.
已有研究（其中一部分在医院的卫生间中进行）从坐便器上发现了多种危险的菌株，包括抗生素耐药性金黄色葡萄球菌（几种“食肉菌”之一）、诺如病毒（“游轮虫”）、大肠杆菌、志贺菌和链球菌等。从理论上讲，你甚至可能在如厕时感染埃博拉病毒。
These microbes are excreted in feces or vomit; if that’s visible on the seat, most sensible people would choose another stall.
这些微生物以粪便或呕吐物的形式从患者体内排出。如果在坐便器上发现了此类污物，明智的人一般都会选择另一个坐便器。
What’s more worrisome is that modern tankless toilets can flush violently with gurgling that creates a spray of barely visible droplets that can fly several feet.
相比而言更令人担心的是，现代的无水箱马桶在冲水时可将几乎不可见的液滴喷溅数英尺之高。
Antiseptic wipes — easily purchased in pocket-sized packets — have been shown to reduce germs on toilet seats by 50-fold.
现已证明，使用抗菌湿巾（提供口袋装，便于购买）可令坐便器上的病菌减少到原来的1/50。
Even so, the danger is minimal unless the germs get into an open cut or are carried by a hand to the mouth, nose or eyes.
即便如此，除非病菌进入了开放的伤口或经由手接触到了口、鼻或眼部，因坐便器感染疾病的危险性很小。
Intact skin is an effective germ barrier, and the skin of the buttocks and legs is relatively thick. It is also less likely to be cracked than the skin of the hands or face because it is normally sheltered from sunlight, dishwashing detergent, tools and other assaults.
完好的皮肤对病菌是非常有效的屏障，而臀部和腿部的皮肤相对都比较厚。而且，由于这部分皮肤通常不会受到阳光、餐具洗涤剂、工具和其它东西的伤害，较之手部或脸部的皮肤，它们更不容易破损。
Careful handwashing with soap and water is the best defense. But swab studies have shown that many bathroom surfaces — flush handles, door latches, faucet handles, towel dispenser handles, and so on — are as dirty as, or dirtier, than the seats.
用肥皂和水仔细洗手是最好的防范措施。需要注意的是，拭抹研究表明，卫生间中的多种表面，如冲水把手、门锁、水龙头、纸巾架手柄等等都与坐便器上一样脏，甚至更脏。
The fastidious may want to keep an antiseptic wipe in their hands, or press on the towel dispenser with an elbow or any part of a hand that won’t fit into an eye or nose, and then use the paper towel to touch other surfaces — including the exit door.
比较洁癖的人可能会随身携带消毒湿纸巾，或者使用手肘或手上不会碰到眼睛或鼻子的任何其它部位去按纸巾架，先垫上层纸巾再去接触其它表面——包括出门。
However, many other places far from toilets are colonized by microbes. The usual suspects include kitchen sponges, playground equipment, gym mats, remote controls and the keyboards of shared computers.
然而，远离卫生间的其他多地方一样有微生物定植，常见的比如洗碗布、游乐场设备、体操垫、遥控器和共用电脑的键盘等。