KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — Malaysia lost 43 citizens when a missile blasted Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 from the sky over eastern Ukraine, and the country’s anger is rising toward Russia following reports that victims’ bodies lie uncollected or have been mishandled — especially troubling news to Malaysia’s many Muslims, for whom prompt, solemn burial of the dead is sacred.
马来西亚吉隆坡——马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的MH17航班在乌克兰东部上空被导弹击中而爆炸，导致43名马来西亚公民死亡。有报道称，遇难者陈尸荒野或遭到粗暴处理，马来西亚对俄罗斯的愤怒之情不断加剧。对于马来西亚的很多穆斯林来说，这是一个极其令人痛苦的消息。他们认为，立即为死者举行庄严的葬礼是神圣的权利。
Yet Malaysia’s government, unlike the Obama administration, has proved reluctant to assign blame for the incident.
然而，与奥巴马政府不同，马来西亚政府不愿意将这一事件归咎于某一方。
Syuhada Daud, a cousin of a Malaysian couple who died with their four children on the flight, said she could not bring herself to watch television reports of debris and bodies, poorly guarded, even looted, on farmland in an area of Ukraine dominated by pro-Russian separatists.
斯尤哈达·达乌德(Syuhada Daud)是机上一对马来西亚夫妇的表亲，那对夫妇与四个孩子一同遇难。斯尤哈达表示，她没有勇气看电视上有关飞机残骸和乘客遗体的报道——散落在亲俄分裂分子控制区域的农田中，没有得到妥善保护，甚至还有财物被人掠走。
“I most want for the bodies to be safe and brought back here,” she said in a brief interview on Sunday in a hotel near Kuala Lumpur where families of the victims have been cared for by Malaysia Airlines. “It’s very important for Muslims to be buried as early as possible, so this is the hardest thing for families,” she said. In Ukraine, an investigation team from Malaysia has been unsuccessfully trying to gain access to the site where pieces of the Boeing 770-200 plane were scattered. Over the weekend, Transportation Minister Liow Tiong Lai flew from Kuala Lumpur to Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, and on Sunday he issued a statement denouncing the treatment of the site.
斯尤哈达周日在吉隆坡附近的一家酒店接受简短采访时说，“我最大的希望就是遗体能安全地运回来。”马航安排遇难者家属入住这家酒店，以便照料。她说，“对于穆斯林来说，尽早埋葬是非常重要的，因此对于家属们来说，这是最难以接受的事情。”在乌克兰，来自马来西亚的调查小组设法进入这架波音770–200飞机碎片散落的现场，但最终未能入内。上周末，马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tiong Lai)从吉隆坡启程飞往乌克兰首都基辅。周日，廖中莱发表声明谴责相关方面对现场的处理方式。
“Malaysia is very concerned that the sanctity of the crash site has been severely compromised,” Mr. Liow said in the emailed statement. “Malaysia demands that all human remains must be allowed to be recovered, identified and repatriated.”
“马来西亚非常担忧，失事现场的神圣性已经遭到严重破坏，”廖中莱通过电子邮件发表声明称。“马来西亚要求相关方面必须允许工作人员搜寻遗体、确认身份，并将遗体运回国内。”
Ms. Syuhada said that families of the dead wished for the bodies to be carefully preserved and taken back to Malaysia to be washed, dressed in white and buried with prayers so surviving kin will have graves to visit. Nearly 20 million of Malaysia’s 30 million people are Muslim.
斯尤哈达表示，遇难者家属希望遗体能够得到妥善保管，然后运回马来西亚。届时人们会清洗遗体、用白布裹尸，然后举行祈祷仪式并下葬，这样一来，在世的亲属才能有借以凭吊的坟墓。马来西亚有3000万人口，其中近2000万人为穆斯林。
“I understand it’s quite hard because the area is a war zone,” said Ms. Syuhada, a cousin of Ariza Ghazalee, a woman who died on the flight with her husband, Tambi Jiee, and their four children: three boys and a girl aged from 12 to 19. “But I feel that there is more that we can do, more that the government can do.”
“我能理解这很难，因为那里是交战区域，”斯尤哈达说。“但我觉得我们能做更多事情，政府也能做更多。”斯尤哈达的表亲阿里萨·加扎勒(Ariza Ghazalee)、阿里萨的丈夫坦比·吉埃(Tambi Jiee)，以及他们的四个孩子都在事件中遇难。他们有三个儿子，一个女儿，年龄从12岁到19岁不等。
The family of six was flying back from Kazakhstan to Kuching, in the Malaysian state of Sarawak, to resettle in time for a family reunion coinciding with the celebration on July 28 of Hari Raya, or Eid al-Fitr, the festive end of Ramadan, the Islamic holy month of fasting, Ms. Syuhada said.
斯尤哈达说，这个六口之家当时乘坐飞机从哈萨克斯坦返回马来西亚砂拉越的古晋，以便赶上7月28日开斋节(Eid al-Fitr)的家庭聚会。开斋节庆祝伊斯兰教斋月的结束。
News reports of the looting of debris and even the bodies of the 298 people on Flight 17 have added to the anger in Malaysia. “We have seen the bags of the crew members spilled all over” in television broadcasts from eastern Ukraine, said Ismail Nasaruddin, president of the National Union of Flight Attendants Malaysia, at a news conference on Saturday night.
有新闻称MH17航班的残骸，甚至机上298名死者的遗体受到掠夺，这在马来西亚引起了更大的愤怒。马来西亚全国空服员职工会(National Union of Flight Attendants Malaysia)主席依斯迈·纳沙鲁丁(Ismail Nasaruddin)在周六晚间的一次新闻发布会上说，在电视上播出的乌克兰东部当地的画面中，“我们看到，机组人员的行李箱四处散落。”
Badrul Hisham Shaharin, chairman of an opposition organization, Youth Solidarity Malaysia, said the group planned to organize a protest at the Russian Embassy in Kuala Lumpur on Wednesday.
反对派组织马来西亚全国青年团结阵线(Youth Solidarity Malaysia)主席巴德鲁希山·沙哈林(Badrul Hisham Shaharin)表示，他们计划在周三组织一次抗议，地点是吉隆坡的俄罗斯驻马来西亚大使馆。
“This is not an ordinary tragedy. This is a crime,” he said. “Russia has a special responsibility, because everyone and the world knows the rebel group in the conflict area is supported by Russia.”
他说，“这不是一次寻常的悲剧，这是犯罪。俄罗斯负有特殊责任，因为全世界所有人都知道，给冲突地区的叛乱团体撑腰的是俄罗斯。”
Public anger over the chaos at the disaster site presents a quandary for the Malaysian government, which sought to maintain warm ties with Russia and kept a distance from American policies. The cautious diplomacy here also underscores the challenges that face the Obama administration as it seeks a prompt and unyielding international effort to isolate Russia over the shooting down of the plane.
灾难现场的混乱情形激起的民愤，让马来西亚政府进退两难，他们试图维护和俄罗斯的友好关系，并与美国的政策保持距离。这种谨慎的外交政策也突显了奥巴马政府面临的挑战，原因是后者正打算以马航飞机被击落为契机，力求迅速争取国际社会的坚定支持，孤立俄罗斯。
President Obama and other Western leaders have already said the ground-to-air missiles that shot down Flight 17 were made in Russia, and Mr. Obama accused President Vladimir V. Putin of undertaking a proxy war in Ukraine that caused the tragedy.
奥巴马总统和其他西方领导人已表示，击落MH17航班的地对空导弹是俄罗斯制造的。奥巴马指责俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在乌克兰发动了一场间接战争，是这场战争酿成了此次悲剧。
So far, however, the Malaysian government has avoided joining the United States and many other countries in openly singling out the Russian government for backing the separatist forces in eastern Ukraine and apparently supplying the ground-to-air missiles that destroyed Flight 17.
不过，迄今为止，马来西亚政府一直都没有加入由美国和其他多国组成的阵营。美国及其他国家把俄罗斯单挑出来，公开指责乌克兰东部的分裂武装受到了俄罗斯政府的支持，摧毁MH17航班的地对空导弹显然也是俄罗斯提供的。
Asked by a reporter on Saturday whether he agreed with Mr. Obama’s assessment singling out Russia, the Malaysian defense minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, said, “We need verification on that.”
周六，一名记者询问马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)，他是否同意奥巴马专门针对俄罗斯的评估。希沙姆丁回答，“我们需要查证此事。”
“We want to get to the bottom of it,” Mr. Hishammuddin said, noting he had held phone talks with the United States defense secretary, Chuck Hagel; the British foreign secretary, Philip Hammond; and Chinese leaders. “But we do not have a position, until all the facts have been verified, whether the plane was really brought down, how it was brought down, who brought it down,” he said.
希沙姆丁表示，“我们要一查到底。”他还指出，他已经和美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)、英国外交大臣菲利普·哈蒙德(Philip Hammond)，以及中国领导人通过电话。“不过，在所有事实得到证实之前，在我们能证实飞机是否是被击落，确认是如何被击落、击落者是谁之前，我们不会对此事妄下论断。”