SEPANG, Malaysia — Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 experienced significant changes in altitude after it lost contact with ground control, and altered its course more than once as if still under the command of a pilot, American officials and others familiar with the investigation said Friday.
马来西亚雪邦——周五，美国官员和其他了解调查情况的人士透露，马来西亚航空公司370航班和地面失去联系后，曾多次调整飞行高度和航向，仿佛依然处于飞行员控制之下。
Radar signals recorded by the Malaysian military appeared to show that the missing airliner climbed to 45,000 feet, above the approved altitude limit for a Boeing 777-200, soon after it disappeared from civilian radar and turned sharply to the west, according to a preliminary assessment by a person familiar with the data.
根据一名熟悉数据的人士给出的初步评估，马来西亚军方记录的雷达信号似乎显示，在从民用雷达上消失并向西急转之前，失联航班曾攀升到4.5万英尺（约合1.37万米）的高度，超出了波音777-200客机的飞行限高。
The radar track, which the Malaysian government has not released but says it has provided to the United States and China, showed that the plane then descended unevenly to 23,000 feet, below normal cruising levels, as it approached the densely populated island of Penang. There, officials believe, the plane turned from a southwest-bound course, climbed to a higher altitude and flew northwest over the Strait of Malacca toward the Indian Ocean.
雷达踪迹显示，随后在接近人口稠密的槟城岛(Penang)时，飞机不平稳地下降到了2.3万英尺（约合7000米），低于常规的巡航高度。官员认为，就是在这里，飞机攀升到了更高的高度，并且航向也从西南折向了西北，越过马六甲海峡朝印度洋而去。马来西亚政府没有公布雷达追踪数据，不过马方表示，已将数据提供给了美国和中国。
Investigators have also examined data transmitted from the plane’s Rolls-Royce engines that showed it descended 40,000 feet in the span of a minute, according to a senior American official briefed on the investigation. But investigators do not believe the readings are accurate because the aircraft would most likely have taken longer to fall such a distance.
据一名了解调查情况的美方高级官员透露，调查人员还检查了机上的罗尔斯·罗伊斯(Rolls-Royce)引擎传输来的数据，该数据显示，失联飞机曾在一分钟内下降了4万英尺。不过，调查人员不认为这个读数是正确的，因为飞机下落这么长的距离，几乎可以肯定要耗费更长的时间。
“A lot of stock cannot be put in the altitude data” sent from the engines, one official said. “A lot of this doesn’t make sense.”
一名官员说，根据飞机引擎发送的高度数据，“并不能作出太多判断，有大量的数据都不合理。”
The data, while incomplete and difficult to interpret, could still provide critical new clues as investigators try to determine what happened on Flight 370, which disappeared early last Saturday carrying 239 people from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
尽管这些数据并不完整，也难以解读，但在调查人员试图判断370航班的情况时，它们仍然可以提供关键的线索。失联航班在上周六凌晨从吉隆坡飞往北京的途中消失，机上载有239人。
Malaysian and international investigators have said in recent days that the plane may have departed from its northerly route toward Beijing and headed west across the Malaysian peninsula just after the aircraft disappeared from civilian radar, its pilots stopped communicating with ground controllers and its transponders stopped transmitting data about its speed and location. The plane is also now thought to have continued flying for more than four hours after diverting its course, based on automated pings sent by onboard systems to satellites.
马来西亚及其他国家的调查人员近日曾表示，在飞机从民用雷达上消失、飞行员停止与地面控制人员通讯、应答机也不再传输飞机的航速和位置数据之后，飞机可能脱离了向北飞往北京的航线，转而向西飞行越过马来半岛。根据机载系统自动向卫星发送的脉冲信号，据信飞机在转变航线之后又继续飞行了至少四个小时。
But the Malaysian military radar data, which local authorities have declined to provide to the public, added significant new information about the flight immediately after ground controllers lost contact with it. The combination of altitude changes and at least two significant course corrections could have a variety of explanations, including that a pilot or a hijacker diverted the plane, or that it flew unevenly without a pilot after the crew became disabled.
不过，马来西亚军用雷达记录的数据，还是给出了重要的新信息，这些信息关乎飞机与地面控制人员失去联系后不久发生的情况。当局拒绝向公众公布这些数据。飞行高度发生改变，并且至少两次大幅调整航向的情况，可以有多种不同的解释，包括飞行员或劫机者使飞机转向，或者在机组人员失能后，飞机在没有驾驶员控制的情况下陷入不平稳的飞行状态。
The erratic movements of the aircraft after it diverted course and flew over Malaysia also raise questions about why the military did not respond to the flight emergency. Malaysian officials have acknowledged that military radar may have detected the plane, but have said they took no action because it did not appear hostile.
飞机调整航向飞越马来西亚的怪异动作也让人产生了疑问，为何马来西亚军方没有对该航班的突发情况做出反应？马方官员承认，军用雷达或许侦察到了这架飞机，不过他们表示，军方之所以没有采取行动，是因为飞机似乎并无敌意。
A week after the jet’s disappearance, Malaysian authorities have shared few details with American investigators, frustrating senior officials in Washington. “They’re keeping us at a distance,” one of the officials said.
在失联航班消失一周后，马来西亚当局向美方调查人员分享的细节少之又少，这让华盛顿的高官们感到失望。其中一名官员说，“他们在和我们保持距离。”
But investigators in Malaysia and the United States recently began receiving additional data about the plane and anticipate more over the weekend, according to a senior American official. “It’s gotten better and better every day,” the official said, referring to information from the plane’s manufacturer, satellites and military radar. “It should provide more clarity to the flight path. It’s not a given, but it’s a hope.”
不过，一名美国高官透露，马来西亚和美国的调查人员最近开始收到更多和飞机相关的数据，预计本周末还会收到更多。这名官员表示，“每一天都有改善，”他指的是来自飞机生产商、卫星和军用雷达的信息。“利用这些信息，能更清晰地确定失联航班的飞行路线。并不一定确凿，不过总带来了希望。”
Because the plane stopped transmitting its position about 40 minutes after takeoff, military radar recorded only an unidentified blip moving through Malaysian airspace. Certain weather conditions, and even flocks of birds, can occasionally cause radar blips that may be mistaken for aircraft. The Malaysian authorities said they were still studying the signals to determine whether they came from Flight 370.
因为飞机是在起飞约40分钟后停止传输位置信息的，军用雷达捕捉到的只是一个在马来西亚空域穿行的光点。一定的天气条件、甚至是鸟群也可能偶尔会被错认为飞机的雷达光点。马来西亚当局表示，他们依然在研究这些信号，判断它们是否来自370航班。
But the person who examined the data said it leaves little doubt that the airliner flew near or through the southern tip of Thailand, then back across Peninsular Malaysia, near the city of Penang, and out over the sea again. That is in part because the data is based on signals recorded by two radar stations, at the Royal Malaysian Air Force’s Butterworth base on the peninsula’s west coast, near Penang, and at Kota Bharu, on the northeast coast. Two radars tracking a contact can significantly increase the reliability of the readings.
不过，据核查过数据的人士称，几乎可以肯定的是，失联客机曾飞临或飞经泰国南端，然后折返穿过马来半岛，接近槟城，而后再次飞到海上。部分是由于前述数据是基于两座雷达站记录的信号，其中一座雷达站位于马来西亚皇家空军(Royal Malaysian Air Force)在马来半岛西岸设立的巴特沃思基地，该基地位于槟城附近，另一座雷达站位于半岛东北岸的哥打巴鲁。两座雷达站侦测到的联络信号能大大提高数据的可靠性。
Still, Ravi Madavaram, an aerospace engineer at the consulting firm Frost & Sullivan, based in Kuala Lumpur, said the accuracy of ground-based radars in determining a plane’s altitude diminishes the farther away the plane is. When Flight 370 lost contact with ground controllers, it was more than 100 miles from Kota Bharu and 200 miles from Butterworth, distances that he said could degrade accuracy. But the altitudes measured as the plane crossed the peninsula would be more reliable, he said.
尽管如此，弗若斯特沙利文咨询公司(Frost & Sullivan)驻在吉隆坡的航空工程师拉维·马达瓦拉姆(Ravi Madavaram)依然表示，在确定飞机高度时，飞机距离越远，地面雷达判断的准确性就会越低。当370航班与地面控制人员失去联系时，距离哥打巴鲁有100多英里（约合160公里），距离巴特沃斯有200英里，他说这个距离可能会降低判断的准确性。不过他还说，飞机飞越马来半岛时测到的高度会更可靠。