Nine Malaysians who had been barred from leaving North Korea were allowed to depart on Thursday in a deal giving Pyongyang the remains of Kim Jong Nam, the half brother of North Korea’s leader, the Malaysian government said.
马来西亚政府表示，在达成了一项将朝鲜领导人同父异母的兄弟金正男(Kim Jong Nam)的遗体交给平壤的交易后，九名之前被禁止离开朝鲜的马来西亚人在周四离开。
The agreement, announced by Malaysia’s prime minister, Najib Razak, ends a diplomatic standoff that followed the Feb. 13 killing of Kim with a banned chemical weapon at Kuala Lumpur International Airport. Angered by Malaysia’s investigation of the killing, Pyongyang said on March 7 that Malaysians would not be allowed to leave North Korea, and Malaysia responded in kind.
由马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)宣布的这项协议，终结了自2月13日金正男在吉隆坡国际机场被人用违禁化学武器谋杀后引发的外交僵局。由于被马来西亚就金正男之死所进行的调查所激怒，平壤在3月7日宣布将禁止马来西亚人离开朝鲜，马来西亚也以同样的方式做出回应。
Najib said that North Koreans who had been prohibited from leaving Malaysia would now be free to go. It was unclear whether that would include two North Korean suspects in Kim’s killing. The suspects had been hiding at the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia’s capital.
纳吉布表示，之前被禁止离开马来西亚的朝鲜人现在可以自由离开。目前还不清楚，这是否包括那两名涉嫌谋杀金正男的朝鲜人。这两名嫌疑人一直躲在位于马来西亚首都吉隆坡的朝鲜大使馆内。
A third suspect, who also took refuge at the embassy, has diplomatic immunity and can leave the country without facing charges.
同样在大使馆寻求庇护的另外一名嫌疑人拥有外交豁免权，可以不受指控地离开这个国家。
“The government believes strongly in the principles of justice and sovereignty,” Najib said. “Our police investigation into this serious crime on Malaysian soil will continue. I have instructed for all possible measures to be taken to bring those responsible for this murder to justice.”
“政府坚信正义与主权原则，”纳吉布说。“我们对这项在马来西亚境内发生的严重罪行进行的警方调查将会继续。我已经下令采取一切可能的措施，将应为此案负责的罪犯绳之以法。”
The prime minister’s office made the announcement after the group of nine Malaysians, consisting of diplomats and their family members, had left North Korea. They were expected to arrive in Kuala Lumpur early Friday.
总理办公室是在包括外交官及其家属在内的9名马来西亚人离开朝鲜后发布的上述声明。他们有望在周五早些时候抵达吉隆坡。
North Korea has consistently maintained that the man killed was Kim Chol, the name on the passport he was carrying, and not Kim Jong Nam, the estranged brother of North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong Un. North Korea also suggested that the victim had died of a heart attack, not from poison.
朝鲜一直坚称被杀的男子是金哲(Kim Chol)——他携带的护照上显示的名字——而非朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)关系疏远的哥哥。朝鲜还提出这名受害人死于心脏病，而非中毒。
The Malaysian police have arrested two women, one Indonesian and the other Vietnamese, and charged them with murder, accusing them of smearing VX nerve agent on Kim’s face.
马来西亚警方已经逮捕了两名女子——一名马来西亚人、一名越南人，指控她们谋杀，称她们将VX神经毒剂抹在了金正男的脸上。
The police also identified seven North Korean men who they said had organized and participated in the plot. Four left the country immediately after the attack, and the other three holed up at the embassy.
警方也确认了第七名朝鲜男子的身份，他们称这名男子组织和参与了这起谋杀。有四名朝鲜人在袭击发生后立即离开了马来西亚，其他三人则躲到了大使馆内。
Najib said the Malaysian authorities had obtained a letter from Kim’s family authorizing the handover of his body to North Korea, clearing the way for the agreement.
纳吉布表示，马来西亚当局收到了金正男的家人发出的将他的遗体移交给朝鲜的授权信，为履行那份协议扫清了道路。