KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — Malaysia’s population has tripled over the past four decades. Its largest city, Kuala Lumpur, a place once so sparsely populated that it looked like a botanical garden, has exploded into a cosmopolitan metropolis of shopping malls, luxury hotels and sprawling suburbs.
马来西亚吉隆坡——过去四十年里，马来西亚的人口增加了两倍。它最大的城市吉隆坡曾经人口稀少，看上去像个植物园，但现已发展成了一个世界性大都市，有大量购物中心、豪华酒店和大型市郊住宅区。
But with modernity and urbanization came an unwanted corollary: a soaring crime rate that has blighted Kuala Lumpur, previously considered one of Asia’s safest cities, and other urban areas across Peninsular Malaysia. It is hard to find someone in Kuala Lumpur today who does not have a story about a purse snatching, a burglary or worse.
但伴随现代化和城市化而来的，是一个没人愿意看到的必然结果：不断攀升的犯罪率困扰着此前被视为亚洲最安全城市之一的吉隆坡和整个马来半岛上的其他城市地区。如今，在吉隆坡，很难找到一个没有经历过钱包被抢、入室盗窃或更恶劣犯罪的人。
“Whatever defense we put up is not enough,” said Chong Kon Wah, a British-trained engineer who was burglarized twice at his home in the Kuala Lumpur suburbs and robbed once while in his car — all within 10 days in August.
“不管我们采取什么防御措施都不够，”在英国接受教育的工程师庄乾华（Chong Kon Wah，音译）说。他位于吉隆坡郊区的家曾两次遭遇入室盗窃，他本人还在自己的车里被抢劫过一次。而这三件事都发生在8月里短短的十天内。
Residents in middle-class and wealthy neighborhoods have begun to gate their communities, often without local government permission. And the demand for personal guards has soared, with the number of certified security companies nationwide more than tripling over the past decade to 712 from 200, according to the Security Services Association of Malaysia, which trains guards.
中产阶级和富裕小区里的居民们开始给小区装上大门，这种做法通常都没有得到地方政府的许可。据培训保镖的马来西亚安全服务公会(Security Services Association of Malaysia)称，对私人保镖的需求飙升，全国获得认证的安保公司数量在过去十年里增加了两倍多，从200家增加到了712家。
Last month, the United States Embassy in Kuala Lumpur sent a warning to American citizens here: “Remember to carry your backpack or purse on the shoulder AWAY from the road to prevent having it snatched by motorbikers.”
上月，吉隆坡美国大使馆向在马来西亚的美国公民发出警告：“记得将背包或手提包背在远离公路的肩上，以防被飞车党抢走。”
The possible reasons for a higher crime rate are a matter of debate — some say the country’s ethnic-based policies that favor majority Malays are partly to blame; others say the police force is corrupt and ineffectual. Even the extent of the crime wave in this country of 29 million people is in question.
导致犯罪率上升的可能原因存在争议，一些人表示部分应归咎于马来西亚以族群为基础的政策，这些政策偏袒人口占多数的马来人；其他人则表示是因为警方腐败无能。在这个有2900万人口的城市，甚至犯罪案件激增的程度也存在争议。
Despite the widely held perception of a sustained crime wave, the government says that after doubling from 2000 to 2009, the number of reported cases of violent crime nationwide has declined sharply since then. Government officials say they have achieved the drop by adding police officers on the streets and security cameras and barriers along roads to deter thefts by people on motorbikes, as well as by studying policing methods in cities like New York.
尽管民众普遍认为犯罪率持续飙升，但政府表示，自从2000年到2009年期间犯罪数量翻番后，全国报告的暴力犯罪案件数量已显著减少。政府官员表示，他们通过增加街头警力，沿路增加安全摄像头和栅栏，震慑骑摩托车偷窃的行为，并研究了纽约等城市的治安措施，从而实现了案件数量的减少。
But a series of high-profile crimes this year — including some against government officials or their relatives — have led the authorities to begin to acknowledge the depth of the problem. Since August, the police have arrested more than 11,000 people suspected of being gang members. And in a reversal of earlier changes meant to shed some of the country’s authoritarian legacy, the government last month passed laws that would give the police the authority to detain suspects without trial.
但今年发生的一系列广受关注的案件，其中一些是针对政府官员或其亲属的，使得当局开始承认这个问题的严重性。自8月以来，警方已经逮捕了1.1万多名涉嫌参加有组织犯罪的人。马来西亚曾进行改革，摒弃其部分威权主义的遗留政策，但上月，政府的政策发生了逆转，通过了几项法律，一旦通过，这些法律可能会授权警方不经审判便可拘押嫌疑人。
As worries rise, the opposition says the government is manipulating the statistics. Critics note that, after years of providing the public with data on murders, rapes, thefts and other crimes, the government has changed the way it presents crime statistics, focusing on what it calls “index crimes” rather than giving a detailed accounting. Tony Pua, an opposition member of Parliament, said he had “no confidence at all” that the figures were accurate.
随着担忧的增加，反对派称政府在篡改统计数字。批评人士指出，在多年向公众提供谋杀、强奸、盗窃和其他犯罪案件的数据后，政府改变了呈现犯罪统计数据的方式，将重点放在所谓的“重罪”上，而非提供详尽的统计数据。议会反对派成员潘俭伟(Tony Pua)表示“完全不相信”这些数据是准确的。
The Malaysian government has also stopped providing crime statistics to the United Nations, according to Enrico Bisogno, the official responsible for compiling crime data at the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.
据联合国毒品和犯罪问题办公室(United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime)负责汇编犯罪统计数据的官员恩里科·比索尼奥(Enrico Bisogno)称，马来西亚政府已停止向联合国提供犯罪数据。
But in response to a request from The New York Times, the Malaysian police provided detailed crime statistics that show the number of homicides over the past 12 years has remained relatively unchanged at about 600 a year. The data also show wide swings in some categories of crime, including a reduction in robberies using a firearm to 17 cases in 2012, from 722 cases nationwide in 2000. Another category, gang robbery, fell to 110 cases in 2012, from a high of 1,809 in 2010.
但在回应《纽约时报》的采访请求时，马来西亚警方提供了详细的犯罪统计数据。数据表明，在过去12年里，杀人案件数量相对而言没有多少变化，依然保持在每年大约600起的水平。这些数据还表明，部分类型的犯罪情况出现了大幅减少。比如，全国持枪抢劫案件的数量从2000年的722起减至2012年的17起。又比如，团伙抢劫案从2010年1809起的高位降至2012年的110起。
One crime that did show a steep rise was rape, with the number reported from 2000 to 2012 doubling to 2,964 cases.
出现激增的其中一类犯罪是强奸，从2000年到2012年，报告的强奸案数量翻了一番，增至2964起。
Teh Yik Koon, a criminologist at the National Defense University of Malaysia, says it is widely accepted that crime rates are higher than reported, and she says one problem is a sense of hopelessness that the police can solve crimes.
马来西亚国防大学(National Defense University of Malaysia)犯罪学家郑亦坤（Teh Yik Koon，音译）称，人们普遍认为实际犯罪率比通报的高。她还说，问题之一是民众的绝望，认为警方没有能力破案。
“There are a lot of people not reporting crimes,” she said, “because they feel there’s nothing the police can do.”
“很多人在遭遇犯罪时不会报警，”她说，“因为他们觉得警方什么都做不了。”
In a country that has long relied on foreign visitors — investors and tourists — for a good share of its economic growth, Malaysia’s paternalistic government had consistently minimized the crime problem.
马来西亚长期依赖由投资者和游客组成的外国访问者，他们贡献了马来西亚相当一部分的经济增长。在这样一个国家，家长式的政府一直努力淡化其犯罪问题。
“If you try to make a fuss out of one or two cases, it will only worsen the situation and create a picture that the country is not safe,” Hishammuddin Hussein, who was home minister at the time, said last year.
去年，时任马来西亚内政部长的希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)说，“如果你试图对一两起案件大做文章，只会让局势恶化，让人觉得这个国家不安全。”
But in the months since Mr. Hishammuddin made those comments, the string of high-profile cases in Kuala Lumpur and other cities has brought crime to the top of the political agenda.
但在希沙姆丁做出上述评论后的这几个月，吉隆坡和其他城市发生的一系列广受关注的案件让犯罪问题跃居为首要的政治议题。
Close relatives of the deputy prime minister and the chief of police were burglarized in separate crimes last May. The former head of a local bank was killed in July, and a top executive of one of the country’s most successful companies, AirAsia, was killed during a robbery in August.
5月，副总理和警察总长的近亲分别遭遇入室盗窃。7月，一家地方银行的前行长被杀。8月，马来西亚最成功的公司之一亚洲航空(AirAsia)的一名高管在一起抢劫案中遇害。
When the house of Khairy Jamaluddin, a prominent politician and government minister, was burglarized in June, Malaysians got the straight talk from a government official many had been hoping for.
6月，当知名政界人物、马来西亚青年和体育部部长哈伊里·贾迈勒丁(Khairy Jamaluddin)遭遇入室盗窃时，马来西亚人从一名政府官员那里听到了直言不讳的表述，这正是他们一直所希望的。
“The burglary is a reminder to all of us that crime is a serious problem in Malaysia,” Mr. Khairy wrote on his Facebook page.
“这起入室盗窃提醒我们所有人记住，犯罪是马来西亚的一个重要问题，”哈伊里在自己的Facebook页面上写道。
Human rights groups say they are alarmed by a number of recent cases of criminal suspects who died in police custody.
人权组织表示，最近多起犯罪嫌疑人在被警方羁押期间死亡的事件引起了他们的警觉。
Critics of the government’s approach say that amid what they call an obfuscation of crime statistics and the sudden crackdown, any real discussion of the roots of Malaysia’s crime problem is being lost.
批评政府做法的人表示，在他们所谓的模糊化犯罪统计数据和突然打击中，任何真正有关马来西亚犯罪问题根源的讨论都失去了意义。
They blame not only a police force that they view as corrupt and ineffectual, but also income inequality and the alienation of ethnic Indians who represent 7 percent of the country’s population, yet, according to the police, make up two-thirds of gang members.
他们不仅认为腐败无能的警方应对此负责，还将其归咎于收入差距和对占马来西亚总人口7%的印度族裔的疏离。但据警方称，黑帮成员中三分之二为该国的印度族裔。
Some suggest the government needs to modify the country’s seemingly inviolable preferential policies for Malays, who receive scholarships, cheaper housing and government contracts as part of a policy dating from the 1970s.
一些人表示，政府需要修改马来西亚看似不容质疑的向马来人倾斜的优惠政策。这是一项可追溯至上世纪70年代的政策规定，马来人在奖学金、廉价住房和政府合同上享受优待。
Ahmad Ghazali Abu Hassan, a professor at the National Defense University of Malaysia, says the system of preferences for Malays “should be modified to address inequality within our society, without identifying race.”
马来西亚国防大学教授艾哈迈德·加扎利·阿布·哈桑(Ahmad Ghazali Abu Hassan)说，偏袒马来人的制度“应该修改，以解决我们社会中的不平等问题，不应再以族群区分。”
Particularly in need of help, he said, were ethnic Indians. “I still believe that poverty is the root cause of this,” he said.
他说，特别需要帮助的是印度族裔。“我还是相信，贫困是这个问题的根本原因，”他说。
A restaurant across from Kuala Lumpur’s domestic airport hired an armed security guard in May to deter would-be thieves after attacks on several restaurants in the area.
5月，吉隆坡国内机场对面的一家餐厅雇了一名配有武器的保安，以震慑那些可能会动手的小偷，因为该地区好几家餐厅都被偷过。
“A lot of people think it’s a gimmick,” said Terence Wong, the restaurant’s manager. “It’s too expensive to be a gimmick. And my customers say they feel more secure.”
“很多人认为这是个噱头，”餐厅经理特伦斯·王(Terence Wong)说，“如果只是个噱头，这个代价也太高了。我的顾客说他们觉得更安全了。”