The headline to the official news article left little doubt as to how China felt about certain territorial claims made by Malaysia in the disputed South China Sea: “Chinese ships patrol southernmost territory,” it read, on a story from Xinhua, the state-run news agency.
对于马来西亚对存在争端的南海某片特定海域宣布主权一事，中国的态度已经通过官方新闻机构新华社一篇文章的标题表露无遗：《中国舰队巡航最南端领土》。
But the top Malaysian naval commander has taken umbrage at that. The commander, Admiral Abdul Aziz Jaafar, has said that Chinese naval ships did not encroach on what he calls Malaysian waters, despite the Xinhua article.
但马来西亚海军最高指挥官对这种看法表示了不满。这位指挥官是海军上将阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹·加法尔(Abdul Aziz Jaafar)，他表示，无论新华社的文章怎么写，中国海军舰艇并没有侵犯他所说的马来西亚海域。
The Chinese report said earlier this week that a three-ship flotilla from China held an oath-taking ceremony on Jan. 26 in the area in question, which is called Zengmu Reef by the Chinese, in which naval officers had sworn to “safeguard sovereignty.” The report, which said the Chinese Navy regularly patrols the area, signaled that the Chinese consider the waters to be territory controlled by Beijing, despite claims to the contrary by Malaysia.
中国在本周早些时候刊登的这则报道称，1月26日，中国远海训练编队在这片特定海域举行了宣誓仪式，海军官兵们誓言要“维护领海主权”。中国称这片海域为曾母暗沙。该报道说中国海军定期在该区域巡航，表明中国人认为这片海域是由北京控制的领海，尽管马来西亚对其声明了主权。
Any such naval patrol would be a major provocation in the eyes of the Malaysian government and other Southeast Asian nations that feel increasingly threatened by what they view as aggressive Chinese expansionism in the South China Sea. Vietnam and the Philippines are among the other countries that have loudly denounced Chinese actions in the region. Some Chinese officials have justified Chinese claims to large parts of the sea by citing a map known as the “nine dashes” or “cow’s tongue” that was drawn up in the early 20th century by the Kuomintang government, which the Communists overthrew in 1949.
在马来西亚政府和其他一些东南亚国家眼中，任何这样的海军巡航行动都会是一次重大挑衅。这些东南亚国家认为中国正在南海进行积极扩张，给它们带来了日益严重的威胁感。越南和菲律宾等国已经对中国在该地区的行动进行了强烈谴责。一些中国官员认为南海的很大一部分属于中国领海，根据是20世纪初由国民党政府绘制的一幅称为“九段线””或“牛舌头”地图。国民党政府于1949年被共产党推翻。
The area near Malaysia mentioned in the Xinhua article is at the southern point of that map.
新华社文章中提到的马来西亚附近的那片海域，就在这幅地图的最南端。
Despite that report, Admiral Aziz, the Royal Malaysian Navy chief, insisted that Chinese naval ships did not enter Malaysia’s exclusive economic zone around James Shoal, which is what Malaysia and some other nations call Zengmu Reef, according to a report on Wednesday by New Straits Times, an English-language newspaper in Malaysia.
马来西亚英文报纸《新海峡时报》(New Straits Times)周三的一则报道称，尽管新华社这样说，马来西亚皇家海军总司令阿齐兹上将还是坚称中国海军舰艇编队没有进入马来西亚在“詹姆斯暗沙”(James Shoal)周围的专属经济区。詹姆斯暗沙是马来西亚和其他一些国家对曾母暗沙的称谓。
The report, citing the admiral, said the Chinese were holding a high-level maritime exercise involving the navy and air force that took place “away from the country’s exclusive economic zone.”
该报道援引阿齐兹上将的话，称中国开展的高级别海上演习出动了海军和空军，“远离我国的专属经济区”。
The report by New Straits Times said the exercise involved the Liaoning, China’s first aircraft carrier; a submarine; two frigates; an amphibious landing craft called the Changbaishan; and support from air force jets. Admiral Aziz said the exercise took place northwest of the disputed Spratly Islands, an area that is more than 1,000 nautical miles away from Malaysia’s exclusive economic zone. Such zones are generally 200 nautical miles away from land features.
《新海峡时报》的这则报道表示，参加演习的舰艇包括中国首艘航母辽宁舰；一艘潜艇；两艘护卫舰；一艘两栖船坞登陆舰长白山舰；空军飞机提供了空中支援。阿齐兹上将说，这次演习的地点在有争议的南沙群岛的西北方向，跟马来西亚专属经济区相距1000多海里。这种区域通常距离地物有200海里远。
“We are aware of this and our naval and air forces are monitoring the situation with heightened surveillance,” Admiral Aziz said, according to the report. “There has been no act of provocation on the part of the Chinese or threat to our sovereignty, as they are conducting their exercise in international waters.”
这则报道称，阿齐兹上将表示：“我们了解这一情况，我们的海军和空军正在密切监测形势。中方并未做出任何挑衅行为，也没有威胁我们的主权，他们是在国际海域进行演习。”
In April 2010, a Chinese ship reportedly placed a steel marker off James Shoal to designate sovereignty, prompting Malaysia to increase its security presence in the area and consider building a naval base at Bintulu, Sarawak, on the island of Borneo, which is about 80 kilometers, or 50 miles, southeast of the shoal, according to the article in New Straits Times. Last March, Chinese ships conducted drills around James Shoal, which led to diplomatic protests by the Malaysian government.
《新海峡时报》的文章称，2010年4月曾有报道说一艘中国船只在曾母暗沙外放置了一处显示主权的钢质标记，促使马来西亚加强了它在该地区的安全存在，并考虑在曾母暗沙东南80公里处的婆罗洲岛沙捞越民都鲁建立一个海军基地。去年3月，中国舰船在曾母暗沙进行演练，导致马来西亚政府提出外交抗议。
The Xinhua report this week said the military patrol at Zengmu Reef was done by the Changbaishan and two destroyers, the Wuhan and Haikou. It did not mention any involvement by the Liaoning or a submarine. During the ceremony, officers aboard “swore an oath of determination to safeguard the country’s sovereignty and maritime interests,” the report said. It added that the fleet commander, Jiang Weilie, “urged soldiers and officers to always be prepared to fight, improve combat capabilities and lead the forces to help build the country into a maritime power.
新华社的报道称，本周在曾母礁附近进行的军事巡航是由长白山舰和两艘驱逐舰武汉舰和海口舰完成的。报道没有提及辽宁舰或潜艇的参与。这则报道说，在宣誓仪式上，舰上官兵们“发誓决心维护国家领海主权和海洋权益”，舰队司令员蒋伟烈则敦促官兵们“时刻准备打仗，打胜仗，不断提高实战能力，为维护海洋权益、建设海洋强国当好先锋，打好头阵。”