KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The Malaysian government said Sunday that it would step up efforts to search the southern Indian Ocean for Malaysia Airlines’ missing Flight 370, in the latest indication that a broad international effort to find the plane will continue for many months.
马来西亚吉隆坡——周日，马来西亚政府表示，将加强搜索工作，继续在南印度洋寻找失踪的马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班。这一最新迹象表明，国际社会将在很长一段时间内继续开展广泛工作，寻找这架失踪飞机。
The Malaysian defense minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, announced at the opening here of a photo exhibition dedicated to the missing plane that Malaysia would send one of its navy vessels with deep-sea survey equipment as well as two commercial vessels with towed, sonar-equipped submersibles.
在吉隆坡举办的以失踪飞机为主题的图片展开幕仪式上，马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)宣布，该国将派遣一艘配有深海测绘装备的海军舰艇，以及两艘载有配置了拖拽式声纳设备的潜水器的商业舰艇参与搜寻工作。
Malaysia will also keep another naval vessel in the southern Indian Ocean, the Bunga Mas 6, which has been providing logistical support to other ships involved in the search. “The search will not stop until we find it,” Mr. Hishammuddin said.
另一艘马来西亚海军舰艇“金花6号”(Bunga Mas 6)将继续留在南印度洋开展工作。它一直在为参与搜寻的其他船只提供后勤保障。希沙姆丁表示，“搜索工作不会停止，直达我们找到飞机。”
The missing aircraft, a Boeing 777-200, disappeared on March 8 with 239 people aboard during what was supposed to be a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. Six groups separately analyzing satellite signals from the aircraft all concluded that it had mysteriously turned south after passing the northern tip of the Indonesian island of Sumatra, and then had run out of fuel over the southern Indian Ocean and crashed.
今年3月8日，载有239人的一架波音777-200客机在从吉隆坡飞往北京的途中消失。独立分析飞机卫星信号的六个小组均断定，在飞过印尼苏门答腊岛北端后，飞机突然神秘地折道南行，后来在南印度洋上空耗尽燃料，最终坠毁。
Australia already has a deep-sea survey ship there that it chartered to map the ocean floor in the area, the Fugro Equator, which is designed to withstand the towering waves and powerful storms that sometimes move through the area, 1,000 miles west of Perth. China has also sent a deep-sea survey vessel, the Zhu Kezhen, although Angus Houston, the Australian official overseeing the search, said in a telephone interview last month that the Chinese vessel was less specialized for working in heavy seas.
澳大利亚已委托深海测绘船“辉固赤道号”(Fugro Equator)绘制该区域的海底图。此处位于珀斯西部1000英里（约合1600公里）处，而这艘测绘船能够抵御不时侵袭该地的狂风大浪。中国也派出了深海测绘船“竺可桢号”。不过， 负责协调搜寻工作的澳大利亚官员安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)在上月的电话采访中表示，中国的测绘船在波涛汹涌的海上作业的能力欠佳。
Australia stopped accepting tenders last week for a 60 million Australian dollar, or $56 million, contract for up to three towed submersibles to spend as long as a year scanning the ocean floor with sonar for debris from the plane. The Australian Transport Safety Bureau has not yet chosen a winner for the contract.
澳大利亚于上周停止接受投标。投标对象是价值6000万澳元（约合3.47亿元人民币）的合同，任务为派遣最多可达3艘的拖曳式潜水器，在长达一年的时间里用声纳在海底搜寻飞机残骸。澳大利亚交通安全局(Australian Transport Safety Bureau)尚未选出合同中标方。
Deep-sea submersibles are more reliable if they are towed fairly close to the ocean floor – sometimes as little as 100 feet from the bottom. But the submersibles can be wrecked if towed into a cliff or other seafloor feature. So the first step has been to map the seafloor in considerable detail for possible obstructions in the planned paths of the submersibles.
拖曳到离洋底极近的位置时——有时近到仅有100英尺（约合30米）——深海潜水器的表现要更为可靠。不过，如果被拖入悬崖等特殊的海底地形，潜水器可能会损毁。所以，目前展开的第一步工作是，依照潜水器的计划路线细致入微地绘制海底图，找出可能存在的障碍物。