Tash Aw is a writer of Malaysian origin who was born in Taiwan, grew up in Kuala Lumpur and currently resides in London. He is the author of “The Harmony Silk Factor” (2005), which won the Whitbread Book Award, given to authors based in Britain and Ireland, as well as the Commonwealth Writers’ Prize, and of “Map of the Invisible World” (2009). His most recent novel, “Five Star Billionaire,” which was released this year, was placed on the long list for the Man Booker Prize, Britain’s top literary award. The book captures the changes sweeping across China through the lives of five Malaysian-Chinese immigrants who move to Shanghai in pursuit of the Chinese dream.
来自马来西亚的作家欧大旭(Tash Aw)在台湾出生、在吉隆坡长大，现居伦敦。他的小说《丝之谜》(The Harmony Silk Factory)(2005)曾获得针对所有英国和爱尔兰作家的英国惠特布莱德图书奖(Whitbread Book Award），以及英联邦作家奖（Commonwealth Writers’ Prize），他的另一部小说是《没有地图的世界》(Map of the Invisible World)(2009)。他的最新小说《五星级亿万富翁》(Five Star Billionaire)于今年发表，入围了英国最高文学奖布克奖(Man Booker Prize)的初选名单。这本书通过五位马来西亚籍华人到上海追求中国梦的故事，描述了中国各地发生的翻天覆地的变化。
India Ink spoke with the author at the Tata Literature Live festival in Mumbai, which ended Sunday, about contemporary China, societies in transformation and capitalism in Asia.
“印度实录”(India Ink)在上周日结束的孟买塔塔文学节(Tata Literature Live festival）上，就当代中国、转型中的社会，以及亚洲的资本主义等问题采访了欧大旭。
Q. “Five Star Billionaire” chronicles the rapid changes taking place in modern Chinese society. How would you describe the outlook of the young Chinese who are leaving behind old attitudes and embracing capitalism?
问:《五星级亿万富翁》记录了现代中国社会正在发生的快速变化。你如何描述正在丢下旧观念、欣然接受资本主义的中国年轻人？
A. My experience of China is limited to the big cities on the Eastern coast – Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou. The young people I meet there were born in the ’80s, and so they have really not known the extreme hardships that all their parents went through during the Cultural Revolution. I think there is a sense in which their parents want to shelter them from that and want to really move on. I think that is one of the reasons why things have changed so much in China. Obviously, a lot of the economic changes have been organized by the government, but I think on a personal level people just want to leave it all behind. It’s a savagely, brutally pragmatic outlook.
答：我的中国经历仅限于东部沿海的几座大城市：上海、北京、广州。我遇到过的年轻人都出生在20世纪80年代，所以他们真的不了解父辈在文化大革命中的那些极端的艰苦境遇。我觉得有这样一种感觉：他们的父母不想让他们知道过去，只想一心往前走。我觉得这是为什么中国的许多事情发生了很大变化的一个原因。显然，很多经济上的变化是政府主导的，但我觉得，从个人角度来说，人们只想把过去的事情忘却。这是一种野蛮、残酷的实用主义观。
Q. How would you say the transformations taking place in China and India are different or similar?
问：你怎么看中国正在发生的转变、以及印度正在发生的转变？两者是不同、还是类似？
A. I personally think that it is a slightly different attitude in the Indian youth. India comes from a different starting point; the country doesn’t have the Confucianism that is so deeply embedded in Chinese culture. In China, the process of change is happening so swiftly it is breathtaking, and I admire it to some extent, but I am also quite frightened by it. I think it’s interesting what happens to a big populous country like China when it comes out very suddenly from a period of poverty into a period of great wealth. It does funny things to people’s mentalities.
答：我个人觉得印度年轻人的态度稍微有些不同。印度的出发点不一样；印度没有中国文化中根深蒂固的儒家思想。在中国，变化之快令人惊叹，我在某种程度上钦佩这种速度，但我也为之感到相当害怕。我觉得，像中国这样的人口大国，突然从贫穷时期跨越到富裕时代，其中会发生的事情很有意思。这会给人们的心态带来一些有趣的影响。
It feels to me that the changes in India are slightly more organic; I don’t think India is accelerating quite as quickly. There wasn’t this sudden explosion. It tends to trickle down through layers.
在我看来，印度发生的变化更有连续性；我不觉得印度变化的速度有那么快。印度没有发生突变。变化似乎是逐层渗透的。
Q. At one point a character in the book remarks, “Corruption is quite comforting, really. I mean, it suits us, suits the Asian temperament.” What do you think it is about the Asian temperament?
问：你书中的一个人物曾这么说，“腐败挺能让人感到安慰，真的。我的意思是，腐败对我们很适合，适合亚洲人的禀性。”你怎么觉得这与亚洲人的禀性有关呢？
A. That line is delivered somewhat ironically by a wealthy Malaysian whose family has probably benefited quite a lot from corruption. But there is a grain of truth in that though. When you look at the extreme levels of corruption in countries like Malaysia and Indonesia, I think there must be a certain amount of acceptance amongst the ordinary person, because how else can we have allowed this to progress that far? I wonder if it’s because we have become conditioned to it or because actually there is something in our brains that doesn’t see it as being fundamentally weird. That’s the issue I wanted to float.
答：这句话是一位有钱的马来西亚人用略带讽刺的口吻说的，他的家庭可能因为腐败受益不少。但是其中却有一丝真理。当你看到马拉西亚和印度尼西亚这些国家中那种极端的腐败，你会觉得普通人当中一定有对腐败的某种程度上的接受，不然的话，我们怎么会允许腐败发展到这种程度呢？我想知道，这是因为我们已经对腐败习惯了呢，还是因为我们的大脑中实际上有某种东西让我们不觉得这是本质上很奇怪的事情。这就是我想要探索的问题。
Q. The book looks deeply at the characters’ economic aspirations. How would you say attitudes to wealth are different in modern China and India?
问：这本书深刻地审视了其中人物的经济渴求。你觉得现代中国人和现代印度人对财富的态度有什么不同？
A. There is a great rejoicing in wealth because they come from a background of very recent, very crushing poverty. So there is a great celebration of what money can do for you. I spoke with a woman who had lived through the Cultural Revolution, and she told me that as a child there were times when they had to live on rice mixed with tree bark and now she can buy handbags. So why wouldn’t she enjoy the liberation that money brings? Why is there this Western liberal snobbery of materialism and money? The younger people have been born with it; I don’t think that they know that it is difficult to come by. With their parents, there is still this fear of ending up with nothing. But I think because China changes so quickly, the circle will come around very quickly. I wonder what young people in China will be like in 10 years.
答：在中国有一种对财富的无比欣喜，因为人们来自最近极度贫困的背景。所以人们极大地赞颂金钱能给人带来的东西。我和一位经历过文化大革命的女士聊过，她告诉我，她小时候为了生存有时要把米饭和树皮混起来吃，现在她可以买手包了。所以她为什么不要享受这种金钱带来的自由呢？为什么要有那种瞧不起物质主义和金钱的西方自由派态度呢？年轻的一代人出生在富裕时期；我觉得他们不知道这来之不易。他们的父辈中仍有最终会一无所有的担忧。但我觉得，因为中国变化得这么快，事情的轮回也会很快。我不知道10年之后中国的年轻人会变成什么样。
Q. Your book is titled after a fictional self-help book with chapters such as “Move to Where the Money is.” Why the trope of the self-help book?
问：你的书像是一本虚构的自助书，其中有题为“搬到有钱的地方去”这样的章节。为什么要用自助书这样的比喻呢？
A. They were everywhere I went in China. In bookshops, eight of the 10 best sellers would be self-help books. In street stalls, they would be selling counterfeit self-help books, on the metro in the morning, all these people were reading self-help books. I was really fascinated by that because the self-help book is such an American concept. Americans and Chinese often think of themselves as polar opposites to each other, and yet they are bounded by the notion that you can improve every aspect of your life by reading a book. Also in China, which is allegedly a Communist country, people were reading such incredibly capitalist books. Mainly they are about how to make money, but there were also books about basically how to snare a rich man. There’s a book called “Why Men Marry Bitches” that was very popular while I was there.
答：我在中国到过的地方，这种书随处可见。书店里前10本最畅销的书籍中有八本会是自助书。街上的小摊上还会卖盗版的自助书；早上在地铁里，所有的人都在读这种书。我真被这个现象吸引住了，因为自助书完全是美国的概念。虽然美国人和中国人通常互相认为对方与自己截然不同，但是这两个国家的人却被同一个观念联系起来：他们都认为一个人可以通过读一本书来改善人生的任何一个方面。而且在中国这个宣称是共产主义国家的地方，人们却在看这种令人难以置信的资本主义书籍。这些书主要是讲怎么赚钱，但也有一些书基本上是在讲如何傍上大款。我在那里的时候，有一本叫《“坏”女人有人娶》(Why Men Marry Bitches)的书很热门。
Q. What is the next project you are working on?
问：你的下一个计划要写什么？
A. I’m writing a short story at the moment about what it means to travel as a Malaysian Asian in India. How people relate to you is different from how they would relate to a blond-haired American in very, very subtle ways. I’m writing a bunch of essays set in Malaysia. I’m interested in how Asia is changing, in how young people in other parts of Asia relate to India. Our parents’ view of India and China is that these were countries that you wanted to move away from. And in just one generation, those have become countries that you absolutely must go to visit and live. That’s where the action is.
答：现在我正在写一个短篇小说，是关于作为一个马来西亚的亚洲人在印度旅行意味着什么的。人们与你相处的方式与他们与一个黄头发的美国人相处的方式有很微妙的差别。我还在写一系列有关马来西亚发生的事情的短文。我对亚洲正在发生的变化感兴趣，对亚洲其他地区的年轻人怎样看印度感兴趣。我们父辈对中国和印度的看法是，它们是你想要离开的国家。而仅仅经过一代人的时间，它们已经变成了你必须去旅游和居住的国家。它们是充满活力的地方。