KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The Malaysian government on Tuesday released a transcript of the communications between the cockpit of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 and air traffic controllers before the plane disappeared on March 8.
马来西亚吉隆坡——马来西亚政府周二公布了3月8日马来西亚航空公司370航班失踪前，该飞机驾驶舱与空中交通管制人员之间的通话记录。
The transcript covers 54 minutes, from just before the Boeing 777-200 pushed back from the gate at Kuala Lumpur International Airport to its last contact with air traffic personnel before it veered off its intended flight path to Beijing and disappeared over the Indian Ocean.
通话记录总长54分钟，从这架波音777-200型客机离开吉隆坡国际机场(Kuala Lumpur International Airport )的登机口开始，到飞机偏离原定飞往北京的航线之前、最后一次与空中交通管制人员联系为止，这架飞机后来消失在印度洋上空。
The dialogue appears routine, reinforcing the impression that the flight had been unfolding normally until just after the cockpit’s last contact with radar controllers in Malaysia at 1:19 a.m., when the plane was approaching the border between Malaysian and Vietnamese airspace.
这段看起来是例行公事的对话，增强了人们对班机一直在正常飞行的印象，直到驾驶舱与雷达管制人员在凌晨1点19分最后一次联系之前，当时这架飞机正在接近马来西亚与越南领空的边界。
Malaysian officials have said that the behavior of the plane, including its route across the Malaysian peninsula and the disabling of its communications systems, suggested “deliberate action” by someone onboard. That assessment shifted the focus of the inquiry to the plane’s pilot, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, and his co-pilot, Fariq Abdul Hamid.
马来西亚官员曾说，这架飞机的行为，包括它飞越马来西亚半岛的航线以及它的通讯系统失去作用等，暗示那是飞机上某人的“故意作为”。这一判断将调查的注意力集中到班机的机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)以及副驾驶法里克·阿卜杜勒·哈米德(Fariq Abdul Hamid)身上。
In a statement accompanying the transcript’s release, Hishammuddin Hussein, Malaysia’s defense minister and acting transportation minister, said there was “no indication of anything abnormal in the transcript.”
马来西亚国防部长兼代理交通部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)在与这份记录一同发布的声明中说，“通话记录中没有任何异常情况的迹象。”
But the transcript, he said, did not change the opinion of investigators that up until the plane dropped off military radar, about an hour after the cockpit’s last contact with air traffic controllers, Flight 370’s “movements were consistent with deliberate action by someone on the plane.”
但是他说，这份记录没有改变调查者的观点，既在飞机从军事雷达上消失之前、驾驶舱与空中交通管制人员最后一次联系之后的约一个小时中，370航班的“动作与机上某人的故意操作相吻合”。
The transcript’s release on Tuesday came as the international search for the missing plane continued in a vast area of the Indian Ocean. Australia deployed an airborne traffic controller to help coordinate the many aircraft involved in the hunt.
在周二公布记录的同时，对这架失踪飞机的国际搜索工作在印度洋的一个浩瀚海域继续进行。澳大利亚派出一架执行空中交通管制的飞机，帮助协调参与搜索工作的多架飞机。
At least 11 aircraft and nine ships were scheduled to explore the search zone, about 1,100 miles off the coast of Perth in Western Australia.
至少有11架飞机和9艘舰船已计划前往搜索区，该区距离位于西澳大利亚的珀斯市海岸线约1770公里。
Despite an all-out effort by the international force, the searches over the past three weeks have produced little but frustration. Although planes and ships have spotted scores of floating items in the search area over the past few days, none of the objects has turned out to be from the missing plane.
尽管国际力量全力以赴，但过去3周的搜索工作几乎没有收获，而只是令人失望。虽然过去几天里，飞机和舰船在搜索区发现了大量的漂浮物，但这些物体中没有一件被证明与失踪飞机有关。
The government agreed to release the transcript after coming under mounting pressure from reporters and families of people aboard Flight 370, who have demanded more details about the investigation and its progress. In his statement, Mr. Hishammuddin said the document had been kept confidential “as part of the police investigation.”
马来西亚政府在来自记者和马航370乘客家属不断增长的压力面前，同意公布这段通话记录，乘客家属要求得到更多有关调查的详细信息以及进展情况。希沙姆丁在声明中说，该文件一直“作为警方调查的一部分”而保密。
Early in the investigation, government officials provided what they said were the last words from the cockpit, which they said were spoken by the co-pilot, Mr. Fariq. “All right, good night.” Some analysts said the phrasing seemed unusually casual.
在调查的初期，马来西亚政府官员曾提供过他们所说的来自驾驶舱的最后一次通话，“好的，晚安。”他们说，那句话是副驾驶法里克说的。一些分析人士曾表示，这句话听起来异乎寻常地随便。
But late on Monday, Malaysia’s Transport Ministry revealed that the final voice transmission was actually more routine: “Good night Malaysian three seven zero.”
但周一晚，马来西亚交通部(Transport Ministry)透露的最后一次声音传输实际上更为常规：“晚安，马来西亚370。”
Government officials offered no explanation for the differing accounts and now say they are unsure whether Mr. Fariq was the person speaking. “The police are working to confirm this belief, and forensic examination of the actual recording is ongoing,” Mr. Hishammuddin said in his statement.
政府官员没有对这些前后不一致的描述做出任何解释，而且他们现在说，不清楚法里克是不是说这句话的人。希沙姆丁在其声明中说，“警方在对这一说法进行确认，对实际录音的法庭检查正在进行中。”
But the sudden change reignited criticism of the government’s handling of the investigation, which has been marked by opacity and contradictory statements, and might add to observers’ doubts about the management of the case.
但是，这一突然变化激起了人们对马来西亚政府处理调查方式的批评，马来西亚政府的调查有许多不透明之处，而且说法前后矛盾，再次突然改变说法可能会增加观察者对马来西亚政府事件管理能力的怀疑。
Government officials, however, have defended their performance and justified their tight control of information as a necessity to protect the integrity of the probe.
但是，政府官员一直在为自己的表现辩护，并称他们严格控制信息对保护调查完整性来说是必要的。
“We are not hiding anything,” Mr. Hishammuddin said on Monday.
希沙姆丁周一说，“我们没有隐瞒任何事情。”