PEARCE AIR FORCE BASE, Australia — A British satellite company solved one crucial aspect of the mystery surrounding the Malaysia Airlines flight that disappeared on March 8, using a complex mathematical process to determine that it ended its journey in the middle of the Southern Indian Ocean. Guided by a principle of physics called the Doppler effect, the company, Inmarsat, analyzed tiny shifts in the frequency of the plane’s signals to infer the plane’s flight path and likely final location. The method had never before been used to investigate an air disaster, officials said.
澳大利亚皮尔斯空军基地——一家英国卫星公司解决了围绕3月8日失踪的马航班机的一个关键性问题，他们使用了一种复杂的数学算法，确定失联飞机是在南印度洋的海中结束了航程。以“多普勒效应”(Doppler effect)物理法则为指导，这家名为Inmarsat的公司分析了飞机信号频率的微小转变，由此推断出飞机的航线，以及它可能所处的最终位置。官员们说，这种方法以前从未被用于调查空难。
The first definitive news of the fate of the Boeing 777 jet brought heartbreak to the families of those on board as Malaysia’s Prime Minister, Najib Razak, announced late Monday that no one is believed to have survived the flight.
本周一晚，马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉达克(Najib Razak)宣布，据信失联班机上无人生还。这是有关这架波音777飞机命运的首个确定性消息，让机上乘客的亲属悲痛欲绝。
“This is a remote location, far from any possible landing sites,” a somber Mr. Razak said. “It is therefore with deep sadness and regret that I must inform you that, according to this new data, Flight MH370 ended in the southern Indian Ocean.”
面容肃穆的拉达克说，“这是一个非常偏远的地点，远离任何可能的降落地点。因此我怀着深切的悲痛和遗憾告知大家，根据这一最新数据，MH370航班最后落入了南印度洋。”
Mr. Najib appeared eager to bring some finality to the families of the passengers, who had complained for more than two weeks about the incomplete and sometimes contradictory information they were getting. Two-thirds of the plane’s passengers were Chinese citizens, and the flight was bound for Beijing when it took off from Kuala Lumpur after midnight on March 8.
纳吉布似乎急于给乘客亲属带去一些确定性的消息，过去两周多的时间里，亲属们一直在抱怨自己获得的信息不完整，有时还相互矛盾。失联班机上有三分之二的乘客是中国公民，该航班于3月8日午夜从吉隆坡出发，原定飞往北京。
But many furious Chinese relatives and friends of passengers refused to believe it, wailing with anguish and screaming that the Malaysians were lying and hiding what they knew.
不过，许多怒不可遏的中国乘客亲友拒绝相信这个消息，他们痛哭流涕地嚷嚷着，马来西亚人在撒谎，在隐瞒他们手头的信息。
“The Malaysian government is not telling the truth,” said one woman among the relatives of passengers who gathered at the Lido Hotel in Beijing to wait for news of the flight. “The Malaysian government is hiding something.”
众多乘客家属聚集在北京的丽都酒店等待失联航班消息，其中一名女性家属说，“马来西亚政府没说实话。马来西亚政府有所隐瞒。”
The announcement did little to solve the deeper mystery of the plane’s disappearance, shedding no light on why someone with detailed knowledge of the plane’s navigation and flight systems diverted it radically from its course. Investigators have scrubbed the background of the 239 people on board, including the two pilots and the crew, and have so far found no answers to that central question.
此次发布的消息对于解决飞机消失的更深层谜团几乎没有帮助，也不能说明，某个掌握飞机航行和飞行系统详尽知识的人为何会让飞机急剧偏离航线。调查人员已经仔细核查了机上239名乘员的背景，包括两名飞行员和空乘人员。到目前为止，他们还没有为前述核心问题找到答案。
However long expected, the news that the jet was lost came as a body blow, dashing the hopes that many had clung to with increasing desparation that somehow the plane had been hijacked and taken to some obscure spot where the passengers could still be alive.
尽管人们早有预期，失联航班已坠海的消息依然是一记重击，扑灭了许多人日渐绝望地坚守着的希望，这些人原本希望飞机因某种原因遭到了劫持，被带到了某个隐蔽的地点，机上乘客依然还活着。
A few people in the ballroom collapsed and were put on wheeled stretchers and taken to the parking lot, which was full of police cars and ambulances. Inside the hotel, police officers in navy-blue uniforms stood guard every few feet and blocked scores of jostling journalists from entering the ballroom. Several women emerged sobbing so hard that knots of friends and family had to help them walk to the elevators.
宴会厅里的几个人当场瘫倒，被放上了带轮担架，带到了停车场，那里停满了警车和救护车。在酒店内，每隔几英尺就有穿着深蓝色制服的警察在实施警戒，禁止大量你推我搡的记者进入宴会厅。从宴会厅出来的几名女性哭得十分伤心，她们的朋友和家人不得不扶着她们走到电梯前。
“We demand the truth,” said a young woman in a red ski jacket. “The Chinese government should step up and find out the truth for us. ”
一名穿着红色滑雪服的年轻女性说，“我们要知道真相。中国政府应该加快步伐，为我们找出真相。”
The prime minister, , based his announcement on a new analysis of satellite signal data that ruled out any chance that the plane had flown north, toward land, from its last known position on March 8. It had to have flown south, the analysis found, and by the time of the last recorded signal, it would have been nearly out of fuel over a rough, deep ocean, more than a thousand miles from anywhere it could have landed safely.
马来西亚总理此次的声明依据的是新的卫星信号数据分析结论，该结论排除了飞机从3月8日的已知最终位置向北飞往陆地的任何可能性。分析断定，飞机肯定飞向了南方，最后一次记录到信号时，飞机应该即将耗尽燃料，并且位于一片风大浪急的深海上空，距它能安全着陆的任何地点都有1000英里（约合1600公里）以上的距离。
The search effort focused more tightly on that area Monday after an Australian military search plane spotted several floating objects that could be debris from the plane, and ships raced to investigate.
周一，在澳大利亚一架军方搜寻飞机发现了一些疑似失踪飞机残骸的漂浮物后，搜寻行动更紧密地集中在那片区域，舰船纷纷赶去调查。
One of the assumptions in the analysis was that for the final few hours of the plane’s flight at least, it was cruising at a fairly constant speed and heading, suggesting that it was being flown by the autopilot system. Experts said it was certainly possible for that to happen. " ‘Heading select mode’ is dumb,” said a former Boeing instructor pilot who spoke on condition that he not be named, referring to one way the plane’s autopilot could be set. “It doesn’t know anything except, ‘maintain this heading.’ ” he said.
前述分析当中的一个假设是，至少是在飞行的最后几个小时，该飞机飞行的高度和方向都比较稳定，这表明飞机是在自动驾驶系统的控制下飞行的。专家称，这当然是一种可能的情形。“‘航向选定模式’没有智能，”一名要求不具名的前波音飞行教练说，指的是飞机自动驾驶模式的一种设置。他说，“飞机只知道‘保持当前航向’，其他就什么都不知道了。”
The instructor, who has trained Boeing pilots at airlines around the world, said that in that mode the plane would probably fly on steadily until one engine’s fuel supply was exhausted, but after that, the plane would probably soon become destabilized and crash without a skilled human pilot at the controls. The plane took off with ample fuel to fly to Beijing, more than 2,500 miles from Kuala Lumpur, with a margin of safety; based on that, Malaysian officials have estimated that it could have stayed in the air until about a half-hour after the last satellite signal was recorded.
这名教练曾在世界各地的航空公司培训波音飞机飞行员，他表示，在那种模式下，飞机多半会一直平稳飞行，直到一个引擎的燃料供给耗尽为止，但在这之后，飞机多半会迅速失去平衡，如果没有熟练的飞行员加以控制，飞机就可能坠毁。马航飞机起飞时携带了充足的燃料，足以飞往距吉隆坡2500多英里的北京，还留有确保安全的富余；基于这一点，马来西亚官员估计，飞机可能一直在空中飞行，直到记录到最后的卫星信号大约半小时以后。
The floating objects were spotted on Monday about 1,500 miles southwest of Perth, Australia, by the crew of a P-3 Orion surviellance plane from the Royal Australian Air Force. An Australian naval survey ship, the Success, was directed to try to find and recover the objects, the Australian authorities said. A Chinese military aircraft also reported a possible sighting of floating objects in the search area, but that sighting was at a different location and was much more tentative, as were indications of floating objects seen in satellite images.
周一发现的漂浮物是澳大利亚皇家空军(Royal Australian Air Force)一架P-3猎户座(P-3 Orion)侦察机的机组人员在澳大利亚珀斯西南约1500英里处看到的。澳大利亚当局称，澳大利亚海军测绘船“成功号”(Success)已经奉命去寻找并打捞那些漂浮物。中国一架军用飞机也报告称，可能在相关搜寻区域看到了漂浮物。不过，中方看到的漂浮物是在不同的地方，而且不太确定，跟卫星图像里的漂浮物痕迹一样。
The search for the aircraft’s fuselage and other bulky parts of the jet that probably sank to the bottom of the ocean is likely to be focused within a limited distance from the suspected flight path. But the search for floating debris, which investigators say will offer proof that the jet hit the water, is likely to be increasingly widespread.
机身及其他体积大的部分很可能已沉入海底，对它们的搜寻可能会集中在疑似路线附近的有限范围之内。不过，搜寻漂浮残骸的范围可能会越来越大。调查人员称，残骸会提供飞机坠海的证据。
Erik van Sebille, an oceanographer at the University of New South Wales who studies and has conducted experiments on the flow of water around Australia, said the conditions of the southern Indian Ocean as “extremely hostile,” with large waves, swirling currents and winds that are among the strongest on the planet. Currents in the southern Indian ocean could scatter floating debris in very different directions.
曾通过实验研究澳大利亚周围洋流的新南威尔士大学(University of New South Wales)海洋学家埃里克·文塞比勒(Erik van Sebille)表示，南印度洋的条件“极其不利”，波浪、旋流和风的强度都居于世界前列。南印度洋的洋流可能会让漂浮残骸向四面八方分散。
“The whole ocean down there is like a pinball machine,” Dr. van Sebille said. “It is difficult to track or predict where water goes, or do what is really important now, which is to backtrack where water came from.”
“那里的整片海洋就像是一台弹球机，”文塞比勒博士说，“很难追踪或预测水往哪儿流，也很难进行目前来说最重要的工作，那就是倒推水是从哪儿来的。”
Finding the plane’s flight recorders, or black boxes, will be crucial to determining what may have caused the plane’s disappearance. The devices are designed to transmit signals to help searchers locate them, but searchers have only about two weeks left to find them before the devices’ batteries run out.
找到飞机的飞行记录仪，也就是黑匣子，对查明导致飞机失踪的可能原因至关重要。这种设备能发射信号，帮助搜索人员锁定它们，不过，要想在黑匣子电池电量耗尽之前找到它，搜寻人员已经只剩大约两周的时间。
The United States Pacific Command said on Monday that it would move a Towed Pinger Locator System, capable of locating a black box to a depth of 20,000 feet, into the region. “This movement is simply a prudent effort to pre-position equipment and trained personnel closer to the search area, so that if debris is found, we will be able to respond as quickly as possible, since the battery life of the black box’s pinger is limited,” Cmdr. Chris Budde, a Seventh Fleet operations officer, said in an email statement.
美国太平洋司令部(United States Pacific Command)周一表示，将把一套水下声波定位系统(Towed Pinger Locator System)调配到该区域，该系统能定位水下2万英尺的黑匣子。“这一举措完全是出于谨慎，为的是将设备和训练有素的人员提前调配到离搜寻区域更近的地方，这样一来，如果找到残骸，我们就能尽快行动，因为黑匣子声脉冲发送器的电池寿命是有限的，”第七舰队(Seventh Fleet)作战部官员克里斯·布德中校(Cmdr. Chris Budde)在通过电子邮件发出的声明中说。