KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — Prime Minister Najib Razak’s announcement that his government had reached an agreement with pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine, for the transfer of the bodies and so-called black boxes from Flight 17 to Malaysian representatives there, apparently achieved what pressure from far more powerful nations had failed to accomplish.
马来西亚吉隆坡——马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)宣布，他领导的政府已经和乌克兰东部的亲俄分裂分子达成了协议，对方将把罹难者的遗体，以及MH17航班上被称为“黑匣子”的装置，转交给马方在当地的代表。他显然取得了实力远超马来西亚的强国施压都未能取得的成就。
Mr. Najib said in a live television broadcast to his nation early Tuesday that the agreement with Alexander Borodai, a commander of the separatist forces in Donetsk, Ukraine, called for the bodies to be taken by train to Kharkiv, a city held by the Ukrainian government. Six Malaysian representatives were to oversee the transfer of the bodies in Kharkiv to Dutch custody.
周二上午，纳吉布在现场直播的全国性电视讲话中说，马来西亚政府与顿涅茨克分裂势力的一名指挥官亚历山大·博罗代(Alexander Borodai)达成了协议。协议要求用火车把遗体运到乌克兰政府掌控的城市哈尔科夫。之后，遗体将在六名马来西亚代表的监督下，在哈尔科夫移交给荷兰照看。
Under the agreement, the bodies and the Malaysian representatives would then be flown in a Dutch C-130 Hercules transport plane to the Netherlands for identification and repatriation of remains, Mr. Najib said.
纳吉布说，根据协议，马方代表和罹难者遗体随后将搭乘荷兰派出的C–130“大力神”(Hercules)运输机抵达荷兰，各方将在那里辨认遗体并把遗体运送回国。
The two black boxes from the plane – which are actually orange —were to be handed over to Malaysian representatives in Donetsk, the eastern Ukraine city that is the headquarters of the pro-Moscow separatists. If all participants honor the deal, it would be a diplomatic success for Malaysia. Mr. Najib said that at times over the past few days he had wanted to be more outspoken about events in Ukraine, “but sometimes, we must work quietly in the service of a better outcome.”
马来西亚代表将在乌克兰东部城市顿涅茨克接收机上的两个黑匣子——它们实际上是橙色的——顿涅茨克是亲俄分裂分子的大本营。如果所有参与者都能遵守约定，那将是马来西亚取得的一次外交胜利。纳吉布说，过去几天里，他有时想对乌克兰的坠机事件更坦率地发表看法，“不过有时候，为了赢得更好的结果，我们必须静悄悄地工作。”
The agreement is the result of an unusual spate of diplomacy by Mr. Najib, who held a series of secret telephone calls with Mr. Borodai. A person with a detailed knowledge of the negotiations said that Mr. Borodai concluded that he would only release the bodies and black boxes to Malaysia, although Malaysia would then transfer the bodies to the Netherlands and make the black boxes available for an international investigation.
为了达成协议，纳吉布付出了非比寻常的外交努力。他和博罗代进行了一系列的秘密通话。了解谈判详情的一名人士表示，博罗代最后说，他只会把遗体和黑匣子交给马来西亚，尽管马方会在之后把遗体交给荷兰，并将黑匣子提供国际调查人员。
The backdrop for the negotiations was a slowly growing criticism within Malaysia, including by some in the political opposition, that Mr. Najib did not appear to be more publicly critical of the separatists or Russia.
此次谈判是在马来西亚国内的批评之声慢慢增强的背景下进行的。包括一些政治反对派在内的批评者，指责纳吉布似乎没有更公开地批评分裂分子，也没有批评俄罗斯。
The agreement with the separatists followed four days of sometimes frenetic diplomacy in which a series of senior Malaysian officials —- including the country’s foreign minister and transport minister —- rushed to Kiev, Moscow and Amsterdam to broker a deal. Malaysia, and particularly Mr. Najib, have played an outsize role in diplomatic agreements in Southeast Asia in recent years, and tried to apply those skills to dealing with the separatists. Mr. Najib brokered the peace agreement early this year between the Philippines government and a long-running insurgency in the south of the country, and he played an earlier role in helping persuade the military government in Myanmar to begin the evolution there toward a democratically elected government. Malaysia has an enormous stake in resolving the problems that have impeded a prompt investigation of the crash and the quick recovery of the 298 victims, who are exposed to abuse and tampering.
在历经四天外交斡旋之后，马来西亚才与分裂分子达成协议，其间各方不时发生激烈的外交碰撞。为了促成协议，包括马来西亚外长和交通部长在内的一系列马来西亚高官纷纷赶赴基辅、莫斯科和阿姆斯特丹。在东南亚近年达成的各项外交协议中，马来西亚政府，尤其是纳吉布扮演了超乎寻常的角色，马来西亚和纳吉布也设法运用这些技巧，与分裂分子打起了交道。经过纳吉布的斡旋，菲律宾政府和在该国南部长期顽抗的叛军，在今年初达成了和平协议。纳吉布较早以前还曾帮助劝说缅甸军政府，开始向民选政府过渡。解决阻碍及时调查坠机事件的那些难题，迅速收回298名遇难者的遗体，对马来西亚至关重要。遇难者遗体可能会遭到破坏和损毁。
The downed jet belonged to the Malaysian national carrier, and those who died included 43 Malaysian citizens, 15 of them crew members. As well, Malaysia was already struggling with the unexplained loss of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, still missing more than four months after it disappeared after turning from its planned course. Investigators have concluded that Flight 370 ended in the southern Indian Ocean off the western coast of Australia, but the confusion and missteps that plagued the first days of the search left an enduring blemish on the Malaysian government.
被击落的飞机归马来西亚的国家航空公司所有，遇难者中包括43名马来西亚公民，其中15人为机组人员。此外，马来西亚还要面对马航MH370航班无故失踪的事件。该航班在四个多月前偏离预定航线之后消失，至今仍然下落不明。调查人员断定，MH370航班在澳大利亚西海岸的南印度洋坠毁，但搜索初期的混乱与失误给马来西亚政府留下了一个长期的污点。
A big question, which was not immediately clear, was why the Ukrainian separatists chose to deal with the Malaysians at a time when the separatists were under pressure by many countries to release the bodies and surrender the black boxes.
很多国家向乌克兰分裂分子施压，要求他们交出遗体和黑匣子。目前尚不清楚原因的一个重要问题是，分裂分子为何此时选择与马来西亚人达成妥协。
One possible advantage for Malaysia is that it has long been a leading member of the nonaligned movement of developing countries that sought during the Cold War to steer a neutral course between the United States and the Soviet Union. More recently, Malaysia has tried to maintain good relations with Russia, China and the United States at the same time.
马来西亚一个可能的优势是，它一直是发展中国家不结盟运动的主要成员，这些国家在冷战时期寻求在美国和苏联之间采取中立方针。在那以后，马来西亚也一直试图同时与俄罗斯、中国和美国保持良好的关系。
While the Netherlands is a member of NATO, an organization seen as threatening by many pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine, Malaysia is a distant Southeast Asian nation that has stayed largely silent on the turmoil there. Almost three-fifths of Malaysia’s population is Muslim, and the country’s foreign policy has often been more focused in recent years on the Middle East, including heavy criticism in recent days of Israel for its military operation in Gaza.
乌克兰东部的很多亲俄分裂分子将北约(NATO)视为威胁，荷兰是北约成员国，而马来西亚是一个遥远的东南亚国家，他们对乌克兰东部的动乱基本上保持着沉默。马来西亚近五分之三的人口是穆斯林，而且最近几年，该国的外交政策通常更关注中东，例如，马来西亚近几天来猛烈批评以色列在加沙地带的军事行动。
Nearly 20 million of Malaysia’s 30 million people are Muslim, and anger here over news reports of victims’ bodies lying untended or treated crudely have been magnified by Islamic expectations that the deceased would be promptly buried in graves after being washed and dressed in white.
马来西亚共有3000万人口，其中2000万人为穆斯林，有新闻报道称遇难者尸横遍野，遗体遭到粗暴对待时，马来西亚人感到非常愤怒。根据伊斯兰教的习俗，遗体在经过清洗，裹上白布之后，应该立即埋葬。