GRABOVO, Ukraine — The rescue workers have left, and their tents are gone. The peppermint-striped plastic cordon flutters uselessly in the breeze. Farmers are harvesting wheat in a field where bodies had lain.
乌克兰格拉博沃——救援人员已经离开，他们的帐篷也不见了。薄荷条纹的塑料警戒带在微风中徒劳地飘动。农民在曾经躺着尸体的田里收割麦子。
Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was blown out of the sky one week ago on Thursday, deepening tensions between Russia and the West and thrusting at least 10 countries whose citizens were on board into the middle of a war between Ukraine’s government and pro-Russian rebels, who Western intelligence officials suspect shot the plane down.
上周四，马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)MH17航班被击落，令俄罗斯和西方的关系愈发趋于紧张，而飞机搭载了来自至少10个国家的国民，这些国家也瞬间被卷进乌克兰政府和亲俄反叛分子的战争中。据西方情报官员的推测，击落飞机的正是后者。
Yet for all of the diplomatic frenzy that has followed the disaster, there is no sign of an investigation here.
然而，尽管此次灾难掀起了一场疯狂的外交乱战，这里却丝毫看不到展开调查的迹象。
At the field in Ukraine where the exploded remnants landed, there are no guards and no recovery workers, no police officers and no investigators. Early Thursday evening, there were almost no people — just two curious 12-year-old girls looking at part of the tail of the Boeing 777.
被炸碎的飞机残骸散落在这片乌克兰田野上，无人守卫，也没有人来回收，没有警察，没有调查人员。在周四的傍晚，这里几乎没有人——只有两个12岁小姑娘，好奇地看着一块波音777尾部的残骸。
The lack of an on-the-ground investigation — and for that matter a demarcated crime scene — is perhaps not that surprising given that the plane went down in what is essentially a no man’s land where pro-Russian rebels have declared their own state. The rebels who have power in these lands have gone back to their war, uninterested in a disaster that has riveted the world.
没有实地调查，相应地，也没有明确划出的犯罪现场，这大概算不上意外，毕竟飞机坠毁在一片荒无人烟的地方，而且亲俄反叛分子在这里宣告成立了他们自己的国家。掌握这些土地的反叛分子已经回到了他们的战争中去，他们对这场让全世界瞠目结舌的灾难不感兴趣。
American intelligence officials had said that these fields could hold important clues to the plane’s downing, such as pieces of the ordnance used to shoot it down or patterns of damage it might have caused. But it is not clear whether international investigators will be able to come, and if they do, whether much will be left to look at after weather and time take their toll.
美国情报官员已经说过，这些田地里可能有关于飞机坠毁的重要线索，比如击落飞机的军火碎片，或者它可能造成的破坏形式。但是目前尚不清楚国际调查人员是否能来。即使能来，经过天气和时间的影响，对他们有用的东西又还剩多少。
“There’s no one out here,” said Michael Bociurkiw, a spokesman for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, whose monitoring mission has been on the site every day since Friday. As for the arrival of international experts, “it’s not like our door is being broken down.”
“那里一个人也没有，”欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)发言人迈克尔·波丘尔科耶夫(Michael Bociurkiw)说，该组织的观察团自上周五起一直在现场。至于前来这里的国际专家，“反正是没多到踏破门槛的地步。”
The investigation is most likely stuck in the same high politics that delayed the removal of the bodies of the 298 passengers and crew members from eastern Ukraine.
令机上298名乘客和机组人员的遗体迟迟无法离开乌克兰东部的“大政治”原因，同样也极有可能导致调查搁浅。
The rebels refuse to deal with Ukraine’s pro-Western government, leaving it unable to respond. Then there is the problem of dealing directly with separatists who are at war with Ukraine’s government.
反叛分子拒绝和乌克兰的亲西方政府打交道，令后者无法做出应对。而和正在跟乌克兰政府作战的分裂分子直接打交道，也会有问题。
Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia on Thursday ruled out negotiating with the pro-Russian rebels, saying that “we recognize the authority of the Ukraine government over the Ukrainian territory,” as well as the authority of the United Nations. (Experts from Malaysia, whose government dealt with the rebels directly, were the first at the crash site.)
澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)在周四排除了和亲俄反叛分子谈判的可能，他说“我们尊重乌克兰政府对乌克兰领土拥有的权力，”同时也尊重联合国的权力。（马来西亚政府曾和反叛分子有直接交涉，该国专家最早到达坠机现场。）
The fields are not far from the battle zone, so security is also a problem. A group of 25 investigators led by the Netherlands, where the flight originated, are eager to get to the site, but safety concerns have left them waiting in Kiev since Friday.
坠机地点距离战区不远，因此安全也是个问题。一个25人组成的调查组急切地想进入现场，小组领导者来自航班出发地荷兰，但是出于安全方面的担忧，他们自上周五起就一直在基辅等待。
Sara Vernooij a spokeswoman for the Dutch Safety Bureau, the agency in charge of the investigation, said the experts “have been investigating satellite images, photos and video clips and have interviewed those who have been on the site itself.”
荷兰安全委员会(Dutch Safety Board)发言人莎拉·弗尔诺伊(Sara Vernooij)说专家“已经调查了卫星图片、照片和视频，并问讯了曾进入现场的人。”本次调查工作由该委员会负责。
On Thursday, Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands announced that 40 unarmed Dutch police officers would accompany the investigators to the site. But it was unclear how these officers would protect the team in a combat zone where security officials from a NATO country could be viewed with suspicion.
荷兰首相马克·吕特(Mark Rutte)在周四宣布，将派遣40名不携带武器的荷兰警察，陪同调查人员前往坠机现场。但是在这样的一片战区里，来自北约(NATO)国家的安全官员会被视为可疑人物，这些警官能否保护调查团队还很难说。
Some crucial questions about the disaster are unlikely to be answered at the crash site. American officials have said that based on calculations of its trajectory, the missile was fired from inside eastern Ukraine, and intelligence officials suspect that Russia gave the rebels the missile system used to shoot down Flight 17. But they do not know whether any active Russian military units were involved in operating the missile launcher.
灾难相关的一些关键性问题，不太可能在坠机现场找到答案。美国官员说，根据弹道计算，导弹是在乌克兰东部发射的，情报官员推测，用于击落MH17的导弹系统是俄罗斯提供的。但是他们不知道是否有现役的俄罗斯部队参与了导弹发射装置的操作。
The Dutch Safety Bureau said in a statement that an initial examination showed that both of Flight 17’s so-called black boxes had been damaged, but that their memory chips were intact. The bureau added that there was “no evidence or indications of manipulation” of either the cockpit voice recorder or the flight data recorder, and that the data from both had been downloaded by experts from Britain’s Air Accidents Investigation Branch in Farnborough, England.
荷兰安全委员会在一次声明中说，初步勘察表明，MH17的两个所谓黑匣子都已受损，但是内存芯片完好。委员会还说，无论是驾驶舱语音记录仪还是飞行数据记录仪都“没有发现被篡改的证据和迹象”，位于英格兰法恩伯勒的英国空难调查处(Air Accidents Investigation Branch)专家已经下载了两个记录仪中的数据。
The cockpit voice recorder normally contains the last two hours of pilot conversations and other cockpit sounds, including any alarms that would have sounded as the plane’s flight systems failed. The data recorder tracks hundreds of different statistics, including the plane’s position, speed, altitude and direction. The Dutch board said the data from both recorders would be synchronized and analyzed, but it did not indicate when it expected to make their findings public.
驾驶舱语音记录仪一般会保存过去两个小时内的飞行员对话及驾驶舱内的其他声音，包括飞机的飞行系统故障时会发出的警报声。数据记录仪则会跟踪数百项不同的统计数据，包括飞机的位置、速度、高度和方向。委员会说，两个记录仪上的数据都会经过同步和分析，但没有表示何时会将发现公之于众。