HONG KONG — An unmanned submersible vehicle searching the ocean floor off Western Australia for signs of the missing Malaysia Airlines plane could finish an initial sweep of the area within five to seven days, search organizers said on Saturday.
香港——周六，搜索行动组织者表示，在澳大利亚以西海底搜寻马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)失联飞机的无人潜水器可能会在五到七天内结束对任务区域的首次扫描。
But a Malaysian official emphasized that the searchers would press on if no evidence of the aircraft was found.
但一名马来西亚官员强调称，如果没有发现飞机的迹象，搜索人员会继续进行搜寻。
An Australian naval ship, the Ocean Shield, is using the submarine, a Bluefin-21, to comb the area where search organizers have concluded that the plane most likely fell into the southern Indian Ocean with 239 people on board. The searchers hope to find the flight recorders, which will be crucial in determining why the plane veered so abruptly and mysteriously from its planned route on March 8.
澳大利亚海军舰船“海盾号”(Ocean Shield)正在利用“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”(Bluefin-21)潜水器对南印度洋的一片海域进行仔细搜索，搜索行动组织者推断该海域是这架载有239人的飞机最有可能坠入的地方。搜索人员希望找到飞机的飞行记录器，该仪器将发挥关键作用，帮助人们判定飞机为何在3月8日以极其突然神秘的方式偏离原定航线。
Some reports had said the initial hunt with the Bluefin-21 could take up to six weeks. But Angus Houston, the Australian official overseeing the search, said that was an overstatement. Now, Australia’s Joint Agency Coordination Center says that with luck the Bluefin-21 could finish scouring the area, more than 1,000 miles northwest of Perth, Australia, within a week.
此前有一些报道称，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”的首次搜索行动可能需要长达六周的时间。不过，负责组织搜寻工作的澳大利亚官员安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)表示，这有点夸大其辞。目前，澳大利亚联合机构协调中心(Joint Agency Coordination Center)表示，如果幸运的话，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”可以在一周之内完成目标海域的搜索工作，该海域位于澳大利亚珀斯西北1000多英里。
If the weather is good and the submersible does not suffer technical problems, “we should complete the search of the focused underwater area in five to seven days,” the center said.
该中心表示，如果天气情况良好，蓝鳍也没有出现技术问题，“我们应该能在五到七天内完成对水下目标区域的搜索。”
Since the submersible began searching the ocean bed there on Monday, it has gone to depths greater than 15,000 feet. From Monday to early Saturday, it covered about 51 square miles, the search organizers said. On Sunday, they said the craft had scanned about half of the area that is their initial focus: a circle with a 6.2-mile radius centered on a signal detected by the Ocean Shield on April 8.
上周一开始搜索目标海域的海床以来，蓝鳍已潜到超过1.5万英尺（约合4600米）的深度。搜索组织人员表示，周一到周六早间，蓝鳍搜索了约51平方英里（约合132平方公里）的海域。周日，他们表示，蓝鳍已经搜索了他们最初设定的目标海域里一半左右的区域，目标海域是一片半径6.2英里的圆形区域，以海盾号4月8日探测到的信号为圆心。
The Malaysian government has continued to play a leading role in the search. On Saturday, Hishammuddin Hussein, the Malaysian defense minister and acting transport minister, said that the effort would go on even if the search area designated as most promising failed to yield evidence. “The search will always continue,” he said. “It is just a matter of approach.”
马来西亚政府继续在搜索行动中发挥主导作用。上周六，马来西亚国防部长兼代理交通部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)表示，即使没能在人们心目中最有希望的搜索区域找到证据，搜寻行动也会继续进行。他说，“搜寻工作会一直持续下去。只不过搜寻方法可能会有变化。”