SEPANG, Malaysia — The search for the missing Malaysia Airlines jetliner was set back on Monday by a number of false leads that seemed to underline how little investigators knew about the whereabouts of the plane, which vanished on Saturday.
马来西亚雪邦——搜寻失踪的马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)喷气式客机的工作，周一因为若干假线索而毫无进展，这突显出调查人员对这架周六消失的飞机所知甚少。
A suspected life raft bobbing in the Gulf of Thailand turned out to be the lid of a large box, Vietnamese authorities said. An oil slick in Malaysian waters was found not to contain jet fuel. And what was initially thought to be an aircraft tail floating in the Gulf of Thailand was actually “logs tied together,” according to a Malaysian official.
越南当局表示，泰国湾的一个疑为救生筏的漂浮物被确认是一个大箱盖。在马来西亚水域发现的浮油并不含有飞机燃料。而最初被认为是飞机尾翼的一个漂浮在泰国湾的物体，实际上只不过是“绑在一起的木头”，此说来自一位马来西亚官员。
The failure so far to locate any trace of the aircraft raised questions about whether the ships, planes and helicopters searching the waters south of Vietnam, some of them using highly sophisticated equipment, were looking in the right place. Malaysian officials said late on Monday that they were expanding the search to a much wider area, including waters north of the Indonesian island of Sumatra, hundreds of miles from the aircraft’s last reported position.
至今仍未找到飞机的任何痕迹，这让人们提出的一个问题：那些在越南南部海域搜寻的船只、飞机和直升机，其中一些船只和飞机还使用了高尖端设备，它们搜寻的地点是否正确。马来西亚官员周一晚些时候说，他们正在扩大搜寻范围，将印度尼西亚的苏门答腊岛北部的海域也包括进来，那里是距这架飞机的最后报告位置几百公里以外的地方。
The aircraft, a Boeing 777 operating as Flight MH370, took off from Kuala Lumpur in the early hours of Saturday bound for Beijing. It lost contact with ground controllers less than an hour into the flight, when the aircraft was over the Gulf of Thailand on its way to Vietnamese airspace. Boeing officials and investigators from the United States National Transportation Safety Board began conferring with Malaysian officials Monday, American and Malaysian officials said.
这架航班号为MH370的波音777型飞机于周六凌晨从吉隆坡起飞，飞往北京。起飞后不到一个小时，班机与地面控制人员失去联系，当时飞机正在泰国湾上空，即将进入越南领空。美国和马来西亚官员说，波音公司的官员和美国国家运输安全委员会(United States National Transportation Safety Board)的调查人员已于周一开始与马来西亚官员进行有关协商。
The Malaysian government distributed photos to foreign intelligence agencies showing two men who boarded the plane using one-way tickets and stolen passports from Italy and Austria. It was not clear whether the two men, whom Malaysian officials described only as “not Asian,” had anything to do with the plane’s disappearance.
马来西亚政府向外国情报机构提供了两位男子的照片，这两人持单程机票和偷来的护照登上了飞机，被盗护照分别来自意大利和奥地利。目前尚不清楚这两位男子与飞机的失踪是否有任何关系，马来西亚官员的描述只是称他们“不是亚洲人”。
The men’s tickets were issued in the Thai resort city of Pattaya. The police there said they were purchased by an Iranian man known to police only as Mr. Ali.
这两名男子的机票是在泰国度假城市芭堤雅出的。当地警方称，这两张机票是一个伊朗男子购买的，警方只知道他被称为阿里先生(Mr. Ali)。
Beijing was apparently not the men’s final destination. Supachai Phuikaewkhum, the chief of police in Pattaya, said in an interview late Monday that Mr. Ali, who was a regular customer of the travel agency, told staff members at the agency that he wanted the cheapest fares from Kuala Lumpur to two cities in Europe. “The staff suggested that a flight with several stops would be cheaper, so he picked that route,” Mr. Supachai said.
北京显然不是那两位男子的目的地。芭堤雅警察局长素帕猜·普依咖乌库姆(Supachai Phuikaewkhum)周一晚些时候在接受采访时说，阿里是那家旅行社的常客，他对旅行社工作人员说，他需要从吉隆坡到两个欧洲城市的最便宜的机票。素帕猜说，“旅行社工作人员建议多次转机的航班会更便宜，于是他选了这条航线。”
Malaysian officials said a parallel investigation had been opened into a possible passport smuggling ring.
马来西亚官员说，正在同时展开对一个可能的护照走私团伙的调查。
The Malaysia Airlines plane is not the first modern jet to vanish mysteriously. Searchers sometimes take months to locate crash debris in remote areas with difficult weather conditions. But in the case of MH370, the weather has been good since the aircraft disappeared, and the waters near the aircraft’s last reported position are fairly shallow.
这架马来西亚航空公司的飞机并不是第一架神秘失踪的现代飞机。搜寻者有时要花数月时间才能找到失事飞机的残骸，如果失事地点偏远、而且天气条件很困难的话。但就MH370的情况来看，自从其失去联系之后，天气一直很好，而且飞机最后一次报告位置所在的水域也相当浅。
The Gulf of Thailand is busy with fishing boats, commercial vessels and natural gas platforms, and is no deeper than about 260 feet. By contrast, an Air France flight that disappeared over the Atlantic Ocean in 2009 was recovered at a depth of about 13,000 feet.
泰国湾有很多渔船、商船活动，还有天然气钻井，这里水深不超过80米。与此相比，2009年在大西洋上空失踪的一架法航(Air France)飞机，是在约3960米深的海底找到的。
Aircraft and surface vessels from several countries have joined the search, among them P-3C Orion military planes whose radar systems are capable of locating floating objects as small as a basketball. In a sign of how uncertain officials are of the plane’s whereabouts, an American Orion spent part of Monday searching off the western coast of the peninsula shared by Thailand and Malaysia, several hundred miles from the flight’s last reported location east of the peninsula.
多个国家的飞机和船只也加入到了搜寻工作中，其中包括美国的P-3C猎户座(P-3C Orion)军用飞机，该机的雷达系统能够找到像篮球那样小的漂浮物的位置。一架美军猎户座飞机用了周一的部分时间，在泰国和马来西亚同处的马来半岛以西的海域进行了搜寻，那里距离MH370最后一次报告的位置有好几百公里之远，该位置在马来半岛以东，这表明官方对这架失踪飞机位置的不确定性有多高。
Malaysian authorities said they had ruled nothing out, including terrorism, hijacking, pilot suicide or mechanical failure.
马拉西亚当局称，他们没有排除任何可能性，包括恐怖袭击、飞机被劫持、驾驶员自杀或机械问题。
After more than 60 hours without news about the fate of the plane, relatives of passengers in Beijing were furious at Malaysia Airlines staff on Monday, and one man threw water bottles at an airline executive.
在失去联系60个小时以后仍然没有关于这架飞机的任何消息，这让在北京的失踪飞机乘客的家属在周一对马来西亚航空公司十分愤怒，一名男子还朝该航空公司高官扔了水瓶。
“All Malaysians are liars!” another man shouted in Chinese. “Do you know what ‘liars’ means?”
另一位男子用中文大喊道，“马来西亚人都是骗子！你知道‘骗子’是什么意思吗？”
There were conflicting views of how well the crisis was being handled by Malaysia. Chinese media reports have been critical and somewhat dismissive; The Beijing Times newspaper said on Monday that “Malaysia and Vietnam are relatively backward countries, without professional search and rescue teams.”
有关马来西亚对这次危机处理得好坏的看法不一。中国国家媒体报道对马方持批评态度，而且有时还语调蔑视；《京华时报》周一的一篇文章称，“马来西亚、越南这些国家相对来说比较落后，没有专业的搜救团队。”
But a spokesman for the United States Seventh Fleet, which has sent two warships to assist in the search, said the Malaysian rescue team was doing a “terrific job of organizing” the effort. Cmdr. William Marks, the spokesman, said the Malaysian rescuers were “very efficient, very professional.”
但美国第七舰队(United States Seventh Fleet)的一位发言人则表示，马来西亚救援队在“组织工作上表现十分出色”。美国第七舰队已派出两艘战舰协助搜寻，发言人威廉·马克斯准将(Cmdr. William Marks)称马来西亚救援人员“十分高效、很专业”。
Malaysian authorities and an independent flight-tracking organization offer roughly the same coordinates of the aircraft’s last known location, less than halfway between the Malaysian coast and the southernmost tip of Vietnam. The Malaysian calculation is based on military and civilian radar; Flightradar24, a Stockholm-based aircraft tracking service, uses a separate network of radio receivers.
马来西亚当局和一个独立的飞机定位机构给出的这架飞机的最后已知位置坐标差不多，都在从马来西亚海岸到越南最南端的直线距离不到一半的地方。马来西亚的计算用的是来自军用和民用雷达的数据；而总部位于斯德哥尔摩的飞机定位公司Flightradar24用的是一个不同的无线电信号接收网。
Mikael Robertsson, co-founder of Flightradar24, said that the company’s computers had not recorded any altitude data for the last two reported positions of the aircraft, which were received about 30 seconds apart. He said there were two possible explanations. One was radio interference from a transmission by another aircraft using the same frequency, which he said was a relatively common occurrence. The other was that the aircraft’s transponder stopped receiving altitude data because of some unknown event on the aircraft a minute before it vanished.
Flightradar24的共同创始人之一、米卡埃尔·罗伯特松(Mikael Robertsson)说，该公司的计算机没有记录到失踪飞机最后两次报告位置中的任何高度数据，这两次位置数据收到的时间间隔约为30秒。他说，有两种可能的解释。一种解释是，来自另一架使用同样频率发送信号的飞机的无线电干扰，他说这种情况比较常见。另一种解释是，飞机的应答器在飞机失踪前一分钟，由于机上发生了某种未知情况，停止了高度数据的接收。