KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — With only a few days left before the batteries on the data and voice recorders of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 are set to die, a multinational search force resumed its hunt on Thursday with 10 aircraft and nine ships sweeping a patch of the Indian Ocean about 1,050 miles west of Perth, Australia, and a British nuclear submarine preparing to join the hunt.
马来西亚吉隆坡——马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)370班机的数据及语音记录器还有几天就会电池耗尽，多国搜索力量在周四再次展开搜寻，10架飞机与9艘船舰在澳大利亚珀斯以西约1050英里（约合1690公里）的印度洋海域进行搜索，英国的一艘核潜艇也准备加入搜索行动。
But once again, the searchers found no traces of the plane. “There have been no sighting of any objects reported today,” the Australian authorities coordinating the search reported late Thursday.
然而，搜索人员仍旧没有发现飞机的踪迹。周四晚些时候，澳大利亚负责协调搜索行动的机构报告称，“今天没有人报告发现任何物体。”
In the three and a half weeks since the plane disappeared, the search — which has shifted focus from the South China Sea and the Gulf of Thailand to the Strait of Malacca and, most recently, the southern Indian Ocean — has turned up no evidence of the Boeing 777-200.
在飞机失联后的三周半时间里，搜索中心先是从南海和泰国湾转到马六甲海峡，最近又转到了南印度洋。迄今为止，搜索行动没有发现这架波音777-200飞机的痕迹。
The authorities want to get their hands on the plane’s recorders — or black boxes — hoping they might reveal the reason the airliner suddenly veered from its scheduled flight path between Kuala Lumpur and Beijing early on March 8 and instead flew south over the Indian Ocean, where officials believe that it crashed.
相关机构希望找到飞机的记录器——黑匣子，希望借助它们揭开飞机转变航向的原因。3月8日凌晨，飞机突然偏离了从吉隆坡至北京的原定航线，转而向南飞越印度洋，官员们认为，飞机已经坠毁在了印度洋。
The black boxes emit pings that help searchers locate them, but those signals will stop sometime next week, when the devices’ batteries are scheduled to expire. At that point, the boxes will lie mute on the deep seabed, making their recovery far more difficult. While the retrieval of sunken debris might help locate other wreckage, experts advise that any floating items could have drifted perhaps hundreds of miles from the plane’s point of impact, diminishing their utility in the search.
黑匣子发出的ping信号能够帮助搜索人员确定它们的位置，但黑匣子的电池将在下周的某个时间耗尽，这些信号也会消失。到那个时候，黑匣子将静静地躺在深深的海底，大大增加搜索人员发现它们的难度。虽然找回沉没的残骸可能会有助于确定其他残骸的位置，但专家们指出，任何漂浮物体都有可能从飞机的失事地点漂流了数百英里，减小了它们在搜索行动中的作用。
If no debris is found, officials and experts warned, the plane might not be found for years, if ever. Investigators took nearly two years to find the black boxes from the Airbus A330 flying as Air France Flight 447 after it crashed in the Atlantic Ocean in 2009, even though it was traveling along a known path and debris was recovered within several days. A British submarine, the H.M.S. Tireless, was scheduled to join the hunt, though it was unclear when its mission would begin. It is outfitted with listening equipment that can help track the pings of the black boxes.
官员及专家提醒称，如果找不到碎片，就有可能几年都找不到飞机，甚至可能永远找不到。法国航空公司(Air France)447航班于2009年在大西洋坠毁，尽管飞机沿着已知路线飞行，飞机残骸也在几天之内被人发现，调查人员还是花了将近两年的时间才找到这架空客(Airbus)A330飞机的黑匣子。英国“不懈号”(HMS Tireless)核潜艇将加入搜索行动，但目前尚不清楚该潜艇何时开始执行任务。该潜艇配有能帮助追踪黑匣子ping信号的监听设备。
Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia was in Western Australia State on Thursday, the second day of a two-day visit to meet with his Australian counterpart, Prime Minister Tony Abbott, and view operations at Pearce Air Force Base.
周四，马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)来到西澳大利亚州，这是他为期两天的澳洲访问的第二天。他访澳的目的是会见澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)，并视察皮尔斯空军基地(Pearce Air Force Base)的工作。
“This has been a remarkable effort, bringing together nations from around the world,” he said in a statement released by his office. “The disappearance of MH370 has tested our collective resolve.”
“这是一次不同寻常的行动，世界各地的国家都参与了进来，”他在由马来西亚总理办公室发表的声明中称。“MH370的消失考验了我们的共同决心。”
Officials overseeing the search have increasingly sought to tamp down expectations that the plane might be located soon.
负责搜索行动的官员越来越努力地降低人们的期望值，告诉人们，他们可能无法在短时间内找到飞机。
Earlier this week, in his first press briefing since taking over coordination of the search operations, Angus Houston, Australia’s former chief of the Australian Defense Force, cautioned against a quick resolution.
本周早些时候，澳大利亚国防军(Australian Defense Force)前负责人安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)在接管搜索协调工作后的第一次新闻发布会上指出，问题可能无法立即得到解决。
“The recovery operation is probably the most challenging one that I have ever seen,” he said. “It isn’t something that is necessarily going to be resolved in the next two weeks.”
“此次搜索行动或许是我见过的难度最大的工作，”他说。“这件事不一定能在未来两周内得到解决。”
Still, the Malaysian government has been under considerable pressure to produce solid clues about the plane’s whereabouts and the fate of the people on board.
尽管如此，马来西亚政府依然面临着非常大的压力，因为外界要求他们提供关于飞机下落和人员命运的可靠线索。
Malaysian officials have suffered particularly sharp criticism from the Chinese. Relatives of Chinese passengers, who made up the majority of the people on the flight, have accused the Malaysian government of lies and a cover-up, while Chinese officials have demanded greater transparency from the Malaysians in their handling of the investigation.
中国对马来西亚官员的批评尤其尖锐。飞机上的大部分乘客都是中国人，这些人的亲属指责马来西亚政府撒谎和隐瞒事实，中国官员则要求马来西亚增加调查工作的透明度。
The Malaysian authorities have held several closed-door briefings with Chinese relatives in Beijing and Kuala Lumpur to update them on the progress of the search. And last week, Hishammuddin Hussein, Malaysia’s defense minister and acting transportation minister, even appealed to the Chinese government for collaboration, “to engage and clarify the actual situation to the affected families in particular and the Chinese public in general.”
马来西亚官方在北京和吉隆坡为中国乘客的亲属举行了几次闭门发布会，目的是让他们了解搜索工作的进展。上周，马来西亚国防部长兼代理交通部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)甚至请求中国政府予以配合，“参与进来，澄清事实，把真实情况告诉中国公众，尤其是那些受影响的家庭。”
This week, China, which has contributed eight ships and two planes to the search, publicly pressured the Malaysian and Australian authorities to keep up the search despite its lack of results so far.
中国已派出8艘船和2架飞机参与搜索，本周还公开向马来西亚和澳大利亚官方施压，要求它们继续搜索，尽管目前仍无收获。
On Wednesday, China’s prime minister, Li Keqiang, called Mr. Abbott and insisted that the search for Flight 370 remain vigorous, according to Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency.
据中国官方通讯社新华社报道，中国总理李克强于周三致电阿博特，要求澳大利亚继续积极搜寻370航班。
“Although at present the search effort faces even more complicated circumstances and difficulties, it cannot slacken, and even less can it be abandoned,” Mr. Li said.
李克强说，“当前搜寻工作面临更加复杂的形势和困难，但我们不能松懈，更不能放弃。”