PARIS — A 15-month inquiry into the disintegration of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 in the skies over eastern Ukraine has concluded that the aircraft was most likely struck by a Russian-made missile, Dutch air accident investigators said Tuesday.
巴黎——周二，荷兰航空事故调查人员表示，在对乌克兰东部上空解体的马航MH17班机进行了15个月的调查后，他们得出结论，认为它极有可能是一枚俄罗斯制造的导弹击落的。
The findings — based in part on a distinctive shrapnel pattern that was found in the cockpit, near where the missile hit — come from a five-nation investigative team that retrieved and sifted through several tons of debris and human remains and even reconstructed the aircraft as part of its study.
调查小组得出这个结论的部分依据是一个独特的弹片样式，它是在驾驶舱里发现的，靠近导弹击中的位置。调查小组的成员来自五个国家，他们在调查过程中收集并仔细检查了数吨碎片和人类遗骸，甚至还重建了这架飞机。
“Flight MH17 crashed as a result of the detonation of a warhead outside the airplane above the left-hand side of the cockpit,” said Tjibbe Joustra, chairman of the Dutch Safety Board, using a common reference to the flight number. The explosion tore off the forward part of the plane, which broke up in the air. The crash killed all 298 people aboard; the investigation found that many died instantly, while others quickly lost consciousness. “It is likely that the occupants were barely able to comprehend their situation,” the board found.
“MH17航班的坠毁，是一枚弹头在驾驶舱左侧上方的机体外发生爆炸的结果，”荷兰安全委员会主席季贝·尤斯特拉(Tjibbe Joustra)说，他按照习惯用航班号指代这架飞机。爆炸撕裂了飞机的前部，机上298人全部遇难；调查发现不少人当场死亡，另一些人很快就失去了知觉。“机上人员可能还没有明白出了什么事，就已经人事不省，”委员会指出。
While the findings stop short of assigning responsibility for the crash, a task that has been left to Dutch prosecutors, they appear consistent with a theory widely promoted by the authorities in the United States and Ukraine: that the plane, a Boeing 777, was shot down by Russian-backed separatists armed with an SA-11, or Buk, surface-to-air missile launcher.
调查报告没有指出坠机事件的责任方是谁，这项任务交由荷兰检控部门来处理。但这些发现似乎印证了美国和乌克兰当局大力宣扬的一种说法，即这架波音777客机是被俄罗斯支持的分离分子，用SA–11地对空导弹，或称“山毛榉”(Buk)击落的。
Russia has vehemently disputed that theory, and it continued to do so Tuesday with a competing presentation, saying that the missile must have been fired from Ukrainian-held territory and that it was of a type that is no longer found in Russia's arsenal.
俄罗斯强烈反对这个说法，本周二也仍然如此。他们称该导弹肯定是从乌克兰政府控制的土地上发射的，俄罗斯的武器库中已经没有这种类型的导弹了。
The report on the July 17, 2014, crash was presented at the Gilze-Rijen Air Base in the Netherlands. The 283 passengers and 15 crew members on the flight, which was en route to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, from Amsterdam, came from about a dozen countries; 193 of the passengers were Dutch.
委员会在荷兰吉齐瑞仁空军基地(Gilze-Rijen Air Base)发布了2014年7月17日坠机事件的报告。该航班从阿姆斯特丹飞往马来西亚吉隆坡，机上载有283名乘客，15名机组人员。乘客来自十几个不同的国家，其中有193人是荷兰人。
The board was sharply critical of the Ukrainian authorities for failing to close the airspace above the conflict zone. It found that 160 civil aviation flights went through on the day of the crash, until the airspace was closed.
该委员会对乌克兰当局未能关闭冲突地区的空域提出了尖锐批评。调查发现，160个民航航班在坠机当天飞经了那片空域，直到空域被关闭。
“Why was Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 flying over an area where an armed conflict was taking place?” Joustra asked. “The question was on the minds of many people after the crash. The answer was as straightforward as it is disquieting: Almost all operators were flying over that area. And why? Because nobody thought that civil aviation was at risk.”
“马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的MH17航班为什么会飞过一片正在发生武装冲突的地区？”尤斯特拉问道。“坠机之后，很多人都在想这个问题。答案很简单，也很令人不安：几乎每家航空公司都在这么做。为什么？因为没人认为民航飞机面临着危险。”
There was sufficient reason to close the airspace as a precaution, but “the Ukrainian authorities failed to do so,” he said.
他说，有充足的理由关闭该空域，以防万一，但“乌克兰当局未能做到这一点”。
The Ukrainian foreign minister, Pavlo Klimkin, told reporters at a press briefing at the United Nations that his country wants a criminal investigation to “expose perpetrators.” Asked why Ukraine had not closed its airspace, Klimkin said the Ukrainian authorities had been unaware that antiaircraft weapons were being used in the area.
乌克兰外长帕夫洛·克利姆金(Pavlo Klimkin)在联合国的一场新闻发布会上对记者表示，乌克兰希望展开刑事调查，“找出凶手”。被问及乌克兰为何没有关闭空域时，克利姆金称乌克兰政府不知道该地区有防空武器使用。
The report is unlikely to produce consensus. Based on the impact pattern, the impact angle and other data, the Dutch board concluded that the missile originated in an area of about 320 square kilometers (about 123 square miles) in eastern Ukraine. But Russian experts say the area must be smaller, and Ukrainian experts say it was smaller still.
各方对该报告不太可能形成共识。在冲击样式、冲击角度和其他数据的基础上，荷兰安全委员会认定，导弹是从乌克兰东部一片方圆约320平方公里的区域发射的。但俄罗斯专家称发射区域肯定比这小，乌克兰专家则表示还要再小一些。
The team of investigators was led by the Netherlands but included members from four other countries heavily affected by the crash: Australia, Belgium, Malaysia and Ukraine.
调查小组由荷兰领导，但成员包括其他四个受坠机事件影响严重的国家：澳大利亚、比利时、马来西亚和乌克兰。
While the new report was not surprising — and is consistent with preliminary findings the safety board released a year ago — it is likely to increase geopolitical pressure on Russia. The Kremlin has denied any involvement in arming separatist fighters in eastern Ukraine or the shooting down of the Malaysia Airlines flight.
尽管新发布的报告并不让人意外——且与该安全委员会一年前发布的初步调查结果相符——但报告可能会增强俄罗斯面临的地缘政治压力。克里姆林宫否认为乌克兰东部的分离派武装分子供应武器，也否认与马航班机的坠毁有任何牵连。
Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia, which had 43 citizens on the plane, said Tuesday that “we now know that the plane was hit by a Russian-made Buk missile fired from rebel-held territory in eastern Ukraine.”
失事飞机上有43名马来西亚公民。马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)周二表示，“我们现在知道，击中飞机的，是从乌克兰东部的反政府武装控制区发射的一枚俄制山毛榉导弹。”
He urged “the strongest action possible against those responsible” and promised that “Malaysia will remain steadfast until those behind this heinous act are made to pay for their crimes.”
他敦促“对责任人尽全力采取最强有力的行动”，并承诺“马来西亚将坚定不移，直至让这起骇人听闻的行为背后的主谋，为自己的罪行付出代价”。
Ukraine's prime minister, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, was more blunt in assigning blame, accusing the Russians. “Our experts and specialists carried out dozens of tests that will also be made public,” Yatsenyuk told a government meeting Tuesday before the Dutch report's publication.
乌克兰总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)在确定责任时更直白，直指俄罗斯。周二当天，在荷兰方面发布报告前，亚采纽克在一次政府会议上说，“我们的专家开展了几十次试验，这些试验也会公开。”