KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — It was not an aide or a diplomat on the phone with pro-Russian rebels, trying to get them to relinquish the bodies and the “black boxes” from the wreckage of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 in eastern Ukraine — it was the leader of Malaysia himself.
马来西亚吉隆坡——与乌克兰东部的亲俄罗斯反政府武装分子通电话，试图让他们移交马航MH17航班残骸中的遗体以及“黑匣子”的人，不是助手和外交官，而是马来西亚领导者本人。
Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia played an unusual personal role, holding a series of cellphone conversations with a rebel leader and then coaching a Malaysian colonel on what to say as he passed through nearly a dozen rebel checkpoints on his way to the crash scene, according to a person who was with the prime minister much of the time.
马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)发挥了不同寻常的个人作用：他与反政府武装领导者进行了一系列电话交谈，然后指导一位前往坠机现场的马来西亚上校，在途经十来个反叛分子关卡时，应该怎么应答，据一个长时间待在总理身边的人说。
Mr. Najib’s success has at least temporarily restored his standing at home, where his government was battered by accusations of incompetence after the disappearance in March of another Malaysia Airlines jet, Flight 370. The arrival of most of the bodies and the flight data recorders from Flight 17 at a Ukrainian military base on Tuesday brought an outpouring of relief and praise in Malaysia.
今年3月马航370失联后，纳吉布的政府被指责为“无能”，而本次的成功，至少暂时恢复了纳吉布在国内的形象。本周二，MH17航班的大部分遇难者遗体以及飞行数据记录器抵达乌克兰的一个军事基地，这令马拉西亚人感到安慰，也在该国引发赞扬之声。
But Mr. Najib’s willingness to negotiate directly with Alexander Borodai, the rebel leader, has prompted disquiet outside the country about whether the prime minister had lent unwarranted legitimacy to a man the Ukrainian government has condemned as a terrorist.
不过，纳吉布愿意与叛军领袖亚历山大·博罗代(Alexander Borodai)直接谈判一事，让国外一些人士感到不安：对于一个被乌克兰政府谴责为恐怖分子的人，马来西亚总理是否给予了他某种不恰当的合法性。
Malaysian officials say Mr. Najib established a rapport with Mr. Borodai over the weekend, and finally reached an agreement with him on Monday for handing over the remains and the recorders, which the rebels had taken from the crash site, in territory they control near the Russian border. The plane, a Boeing 777-200 with 298 aboard, was on its way from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur when it was struck by an antiaircraft missile on July 17.
马来西亚官员说，纳吉布上周末与博罗代融洽交谈，最终在周一达成了一项协议，涉及移交遗体和叛军从坠机现场起获的飞行纪录器；坠机现场靠近俄罗斯边境，位于叛军控制的区域内。这架载有298人的波音777-200，7月17日在从阿姆斯特丹飞往吉隆坡的途中，被一枚防空导弹击中。
Opposition politicians in Malaysia who had excoriated Mr. Najib through the spring over Flight 370 endorsed his actions on Wednesday at a special session of Parliament and in a series of earlier statements. A senior opposition politician, Lim Kit Siang, wrote on his blog that the prime minister “is to be commended for the breakthrough with the handover of the two black boxes.” And Lim Guan Eng, the secretary general of the Democratic Action Party, a major opposition bloc, said his party was “willing to stand together with the federal government to support their efforts to bring back the bodies to their families.”
MH370失联后，马来西亚的反对派政治人士整个春天都在痛斥纳吉布，但在周三的议会特别会议上，以及之前的一系列声明中，这些人认可了他的行动。资深反对派人士林吉祥(LIM Kit Siang)在博客中表示，纳吉布总理“在两个黑匣子的移交问题上取得了突破，值得赞扬”。主要反对党民主行动党(Democratic Action Party)的党首林冠英(Lim GuanEng)也表示，该党“愿意与联邦政府同心协力，支持他们为将遗体送交家人做出的努力”。
Officials in Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, insisted that Mr. Najib’s arrangement with Mr. Borodai did not involve any promise of formal diplomatic recognition or payment to the pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine. Political analysts said that Mr. Najib’s domestic political bonanza depended partly on that remaining true.
在马来西亚首都吉隆坡，官员们坚称，纳吉布与博罗代的协议不涉及向乌克兰东部的亲俄分裂分子提供正式外交承认或支付款项的任何承诺。政治分析人士说，纳吉布在国内政界的资本，部分上取决于这种说法是否属实。
“If it emerges that there are issues behind this deal, then things will be seen in a slightly different way,” said Bridget Welsh, a senior research associate at National Taiwan University who specializes in Malaysian politics.
“如果这桩交易爆出幕后问题，那么人们看待这些事情的方式就会略微不同​，”国立台湾大学专门研究马来西亚政治的高级研究员布里奇特·韦尔什(Bridget Welsh)说。
The Malaysian delegation in Ukraine incurred the anger of many Ukrainians by using the honorific “excellency” in referring to Mr. Borodai, who styles himself the leader of a breakaway republic. But, at least in public, Mr. Najib has not used the term, referring to the rebel leader only as “Mr. Borodai.”
马来西亚代表团在乌克兰提到博罗代时使用了尊称“阁下”，让许多乌克兰人感到愤怒，因为博罗代自封是一个脱离了乌克兰的共和国的领导者。但是，至少在公开场合，纳吉布还没有使用这个词，只是称这个反政府武装领导者为“博罗代先生”。
Few Malaysians have followed the Ukrainian conflict in detail, so the question of legitimizing Mr. Borodai, who is a Russian citizen, has barely been raised here. The overwhelming priority has been recovering the bodies of the 43 Malaysians who were on Flight 17, including two infants — an especially delicate matter in a mainly Muslim country where prompt, proper burial of the dead is a strong religious imperative.
马来西亚人很少关注乌克兰冲突的细节，所以此举是否会为俄罗斯公民博罗代赋予合法性的问题，在该国几无人提及。压倒一切的优先事项，则是索回这个航班上43位马来西亚人、其中包括两名婴儿的遗体——这是一个特别棘手的问题，因为马来西亚是一个以穆斯林为主的国家，立即对死者进行合适的埋葬在这里是一种强烈的宗教需要。
“Over here, people don’t care how the deal was done,” said James Chin, a professor of political science at the Kuala Lumpur campus of Monash University. “All they care is that the bodies are coming back, so that the families have closure.”
“在这里，人们不关心这笔交易是怎么做成的，”莫纳什大学(Monash University)吉隆坡校区政治学教授詹运豪(James Chin)说。“他们关心的是送回遗体，这样家人才能得到解脱。”
Mr. Najib was given Mr. Borodai’s cellphone number by someone whom Mr. Borodai trusted and who vouched for Mr. Najib, according to Malaysian officials. They declined to say whether the intermediary who set up the initial call was Russian.
据马来西亚官员说，纳吉布通过一个中间人获得了博罗代的手机号码，此人受到博罗代的信任，并为纳吉布担了保。他们拒绝透露这个安排第一通电话的中间人是否是俄罗斯人。