WASHINGTON — Investigators are examining data that appear to show that the missing Malaysia Airlines jetliner was still in automated communication with satellite systems, and may therefore still have been airborne or at least functional, for hours after ground controllers last heard from it, a well-placed official involved in the investigation said on Thursday.
华盛顿——一名与相关调查关系密切的官员周四表示，调查人员正在分析一些数据，这些数据似乎表明，在地面控制人员最后一次收到马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)失联飞机信号之后，飞机依然在自动与卫星系统联系，由此看来，在失联后的几个小时之内，飞机可能依然在空中飞行，起码是可以运转。
The information added to a growing belief that the jet turned off course after contact was lost and could have traveled hundreds of miles west, across the Malaysian peninsula and out into the Indian Ocean. Some search efforts were redirected to those waters on Thursday, with the redeployment of American naval aircraft and an American destroyer, the Kidd.
这一消息让人们更加相信，飞机在失联后曾偏离航线，可能往西飞了数百英里，越过马来西亚半岛，进入了印度洋上空。周四，部分搜救行动转向了那些水域，美国也对海军飞机和“基德号”驱逐舰进行了重新部署。
Revelations that the aircraft continued to communicate with satellites long after it was reported lost added to a swirl of new information and speculation on Thursday about its fate. ABC News reported on Thursday evening that American officials believe the shutdown of two communications systems aboard the aircraft happened at separate times, suggesting they were turned off deliberately rather than as a result of a catastrophic failure. The ABC report, which quoted two unidentified officials, could not be immediately corroborated.
周四，飞机在据报失踪后很长一段时间里依然在和卫星联系的情况遭到披露之后，关于飞机命运的新消息和猜测变得更加复杂。ABC新闻频道(ABC News)周四晚上报道称，美国官员认为，机上的两套通讯系统是分别关闭的，这表明它们并没有出现灾难性的故障，而是被故意关掉的。ABC的报道援引了两名未具名官员的话，该报道无法立即得到验证。
Data captured before the aircraft’s communications systems ceased to function appeared to reflect regular attempts by equipment on the plane to establish a link with a satellite. Such a link would be used to transmit routine maintenance data about the plane, if the airline operating it subscribed to that service.
在飞机通讯系统停止运作前获得的数据似乎显示，机上的设备曾按固定的时间间隔尝试与卫星建立连接。飞机如果订购了相关服务，便可以通过这种连接来传输飞机的日常维护数据。
The attempts continued periodically for a considerable time after the plane’s transponder, which identifies it to ground control radar, stopped functioning 40 minutes into the flight, the investigator said, but electronics experts have not yet established precisely how long. It was not clear how much information could be gleaned from the satellite communications, beyond the length of time that the contacts persisted.
调查人员称，在飞机的异频雷达收发机停止工作后，与卫星建立连接的尝试周期性地持续了相当长的一段时间，但电子技术专家还没有查明准确的时长。该收发机的功能是向地面控制雷达表明飞机身份，在飞机飞行了40分钟后停止工作。目前尚不清楚，除了联系持续的时长之外，专家还能从这种卫星通讯当中获得多少信息。
The new evidence suggesting that the plane kept flying for hours was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. Malaysian officials denied on Thursday that any data was received from the aircraft after contact with ground controllers was lost.
《华尔街时报》(The Wall Street Journal)最先报道了表明飞机在失联后继续飞行了数小时的新证据。马来西亚官员周四表示，在飞机与地面控制人员失去联系后，再没有收到过任何来自该飞机的数据。
Radar signals detected by the Malaysian military also strongly suggest that an unidentified aircraft — most likely the missing jet — remained airborne after Flight 370, with 239 people on board, ceased communications with air traffic controllers. The radar showed the aircraft crossing the peninsula from east to west near the Malaysia-Thailand border and flying out over the Strait of Malacca.
马来西亚军方检测到的雷达信号也明显表明，在载有239人的370航班停止与空中交通控制人员联系后，一架身份不明的飞机——极有可能是那架失联飞机——依然在空中飞行。雷达显示，那架飞机在马来西亚与泰国边界附近自东向西飞越马来西亚半岛，飞到了马六甲海峡上空。
Military radar last recorded the unidentified plane 200 miles northwest of Penang, Malaysia, flying at 29,500 feet, Malaysian officials said. They said the data was being shared with American and Chinese officials to help determine whether the plane was Flight 370.
马来西亚官方称，军方雷达最后一次记录到那架不明身份的飞机时，它正在马来西亚槟榔屿西北200英里（约合322公里）的地方飞行，高度是2.95万英尺。他们说，马方正在与美国和中国官员共享相关数据，以便确定那架飞机是不是370航班。
The search area being combed by dozens of ships and planes was expanded on Thursday to take in parts of the Andaman Sea, the arm of the Indian Ocean northwest of the strait, and may grow further. Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said on Thursday, “Based on some new information that’s not necessarily conclusive, but new information, an additional search area may be opened in the Indian Ocean, and we are consulting with international partners about the appropriate assets to deploy.”
周四，几十艘舰船和数十架飞机仔细搜寻的搜救区域扩展至安达曼海的部分海域，而且可能继续扩展。安达曼海在马六甲海峡的西北方向，属于印度洋。白宫发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)周四表示，“基于一些未必确凿的新信息，搜救区域可能会扩大至印度洋。我们正在就需要部署的搜救力量与国际伙伴进行磋商。”
The Pentagon said that the Kidd would search in the Andaman Sea at the request of the Malaysian government, and that a P-3 surveillance plane had already flown over the area. Syed Akbaruddin, the spokesman for India’s External Affairs Ministry, said India had also sent three ships, two airplanes and a helicopter to search in that area.
五角大楼(Pentagon)称，应马来西亚政府的请求，“基德号”将在安达曼海进行搜救，此外，一架P-3侦察机已经在该海域上空进行搜救。印度外交部(Ministry of External Affairs)发言人赛义德·艾克巴鲁丁(Syed Akbaruddin)称，印度也已派遣三艘船、两架飞机和一架直升机到该地区展开搜寻。
The plane, a Boeing 777, was bound for Beijing and had fuel on board to fly at least 2,500 miles. Contact was lost 40 minutes into the flight, when the plane was on course, heading northeastward from Kuala Lumpur over the Gulf of Thailand toward Vietnamese airspace, and the hunt initially concentrated on those waters to the east of the Malaysian peninsula.
这架波音777飞机原定飞往北京，飞机上配备的燃油至少可供飞行2500英里。飞行40分钟后，飞机与地面失去联系，当时还在预定的航线上——从吉隆坡向东北飞越泰国湾，飞向越南领空。因此，搜索工作最初集中在马来半岛以东的水域。
Days of intensive searching there produced nothing but false leads and floating debris that turned out to be unrelated to the aircraft. Still, Malaysia’s defense minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, said on Thursday that the main search effort would continue in that area.
然而，针对该水域的数日紧张搜索并没有带来任何发现，只找到一些错误的线索，以及一些后来证实与失踪飞机无关的漂浮物。不过，马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)周四表示，主要搜索工作仍将在这个区域展开。
Pentagon officials said that several American agencies were reviewing the radar signals recorded by the Malaysian military, but had not yet found anything that would indicate specifically where the missing plane might have gone. A senior Pentagon official said that Malaysian and American authorities were “looking pretty closely” at the possibility that the plane went down in the Indian Ocean, but had not reached any conclusions.
美国国防部官员称，几家美国机构正在对马来军方记录的雷达信号进行分析，但尚未发现任何足以表明失踪飞机具体下落的信息。一名国防部高级官员说，马来西亚官员和美国官员正在“仔细考虑”飞机坠入印度洋的可能性，但尚未得出结论。