The first waves of shock had passed, and it was not time yet for mourning.
最初的震惊已经过去，现在也还不是哀悼的时候。
The relatives and friends of the 227 passengers of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 were settling in on Wednesday for what they realized could be a long wait. They had been hungry for news of their loved ones since Saturday, although little had come.
周三，失踪的马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班227名乘客的家属和朋友已经安顿下来，他们意识到这可能会是一场漫长的等待。自上周六以来，他们一直渴望得到有关亲人的消息，不过几乎没有什么消息。
At a morning meeting at the Lido Hotel in Beijing on Wednesday, they again pressed Malaysian officials and airline executives about the search operations. They also insisted that the airline pay for all expenses incurred during their ordeal, which began when the Beijing-bound flight disappeared shortly after takeoff.
周三，在北京丽都酒店举行的早间会议上，他们再次向马来西亚官员及马航高管追问有关搜索行动的消息。他们还坚持要求马航支付这场磨难中的所有费用。飞往北京的航班在起飞后不久便消失，这使他们备受折磨。
In response, the airline agreed to give them 31,000 renminbi per passenger, or $5,000, to cover their expenses. Ignatius Ong Ming Choy, an airline executive, told the 200 or so people gathered in a ballroom at the hotel that the cash would be handed out later that day at the Lido or at one of three other hotels in Beijing where families were staying. As he spoke, several other airline executives and the Malaysian ambassador to China listened from a table at the front of the ballroom.
马航作出回应，同意向每名乘客的家属提供3.1万元人民币，以承担他们的费用。马航高管王明财(Ignatius Ong Ming Choy)向聚集在酒店宴会厅的大约200人表示，会在当天晚些时候分发现金，地点是丽都酒店或家属们所在的其他三家酒店中的一家。王明财讲话时，马航的其他几名高管及马来西亚驻华大使坐在房间前方的桌旁。
“We know that some of you have traveled far,” Mr. Ong said at a later meeting.
王明财在后来的会议中表示，“我们知道你们中有些人从很远的地方来到这里。”
The discussion had not turned yet to compensation for lost lives. People expect those talks to come later. The family members appeared more subdued on Wednesday, possibly resigned to the reality that the hope of finding survivors was slipping away. Just two days ago, angry relatives lobbed water bottles at Mr. Ong and other airline executives as they tried to make arrangements for the families to travel to Malaysia, from where the Boeing 777 had taken off on Saturday.
讨论还未涉及死亡赔偿问题。人们预计晚些时候会进行此类谈话。家属们在周三似乎比较克制，他们可能已经接受了找到生还者的希望越来越渺茫的现实。就在两天之前，愤怒的亲属在王明财和另一名马航高管安排这些家人前往马来西亚时，向他们扔水瓶，那架波音777客机是周六从马来西亚起飞的。
The airline executives had little information to share during that meeting, and there was just as little information on Wednesday, and perhaps even more obfuscation. In Malaysia, the transport minister told reporters, “It is only confusion if you want it to be seen as confusion.”
在周一的会议上，马航高管门没有提供什么信息，周三也是如此，这或许带来了更多困惑。在马来西亚，交通部长告诉记者，“只有在你把它看成是混乱的时候，它才是混乱。”
The sealed ballroom was starting to resemble a train station: people sitting around with shoes off, eating meals, trying to ignore the growing stench.
这个封闭的宴会厅开始像一个火车站了：人们脱了鞋，坐着等待，吃饭，努力忽略越来越臭的环境。
The Chinese news media began expressing some of the frustration felt by the relatives. Global Times, published a scathing editorial on Wednesday that said, “Among all the information that has been released by Malaysia, we’re not sure what is true and what is not, or whether Malaysia has released all the information it possesses.”
中国的新闻媒体开始报道亲属们的失望情绪。周三，《环球时报》发表了一篇言辞激烈的社评，文章称，“我们搞不清楚马来西亚方面发布的的各种信息哪个是真的，哪个是假的，以及马方是否公布了迄今掌握的全部相关信息。”
“We doubt that Kuala Lumpur has the ability to effectively make sense of the information; maybe they should consider letting China in on interpreting the raw data,” it said. “The world is watching.”
“我们担心，吉隆坡未必有能力对信息进行有效整理，那么他们是否应当考虑让中国参与对最原始信息的研判呢？”文章称，“全世界都在看着。”
The relatives and friends in the Lido Hotel asked some of those same questions on Wednesday, but they appeared equally obsessed with negotiating with Mr. Ong over logistics: how many seats, and in which class, could each family book on a planned charter flight to Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital? Could Malaysia Airlines pay for better hotel rooms and food here in Beijing?
周三在丽都酒店，乘客亲友也询问类似问题，但看起来他们对一些后勤问题同样关注，他们和王明财交涉的内容包括能提供多少个座位，什么舱位，每个家庭都可以预定计划飞往马来西亚首都吉隆坡的包机航班吗？马航能在北京提供更好的酒店和食物吗？
“We’ll look into it,” Mr. Ong said several times at the morning meeting, which was officially closed to journalists, though some were in the room. Several people in the audience stood up and demanded that Malaysia Airlines apologize. There were also the inevitable questions about the search-and-rescue efforts, which have now spread across two seas, and accusations of incompetence on the part of the Malaysian government and military. Some people had heard about news reports in Malaysia that the military might have tracked a plane, perhaps the missing Boeing, that had gone west across the Malaysian Peninsula and over the Strait of Malacca.
王明财在上午的会议上多次表示，“我们会进行研究。”会议理论上不对新闻工作者开放，但现场还是有些记者。听众中有几人站起来，要求马航道歉。还有必然会出现的关于救援努力的问题，以对马来西亚政府与军方无能的指责。救援行动现已扩展到两片海域。有人得知，马来西亚的新闻报道称，军方可能追踪到一架飞机曾经往西穿越了马来半岛，到了马六甲海峡的另一边，而这或许就是失踪的波音。
“Who did they inform after the plane disappeared?” one man asked, referring to Malaysian officials. “Did they inform everyone?”
“飞机失联以后他们通知了什么人？”一名男士问到，口中的“他们”指的是马来西亚官员。“他们通知所有人了吗？”
The Malaysian ambassador to China, Datuk Iskandar Sarudin, was present at the meeting, as were a man and a woman representing the Malaysian Department of Civil Aviation. The woman said, “If your daughter goes missing, you ask all your neighbors.”
马来西亚驻华大使达图·伊斯甘达·萨鲁丁(Datuk Iskandar Sarudin)，以及马来西亚民航局(Malaysian Department of Civil Aviation)的一男一女两名代表也出席了会议。其中的女士称，“如果女儿失踪了，你会去问所有的邻居。”
One of the relatives, Qiao Yan, who has been designated to act as the moderator at these meetings, stood at the front of the ballroom with a microphone, pointing to those with questions.
亲属之中，乔研（音译）被指定为会议主持，他拿着话筒站在宴会厅前方，点名提问。
A middle-aged man stood up.
一名中年男士站了起来。
“The countries are conducting maritime searches,” he said. “Just searching the sea, we’re not getting any results. We could also search the forests and mountains of the surrounding countries.”
“几个国家都在海上找，”他说。“只在海上找，我们什么答案也没有。我们可以也看看周边国家的森林和山区。”
He said the pilots might have glided the jet to a landing on a remote patch of land. If so, it would be stranded and cut off from communications, he said.
他说，飞行员也许设法把客机降到了偏远的陆地，如果是这样，飞机就可能被困住了，无法与外界联络。