SYDNEY, Australia — The deep-sea underwater search for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 resumed overnight on Thursday with a remote-controlled submersible scouring the seabed in an area where searchers still believe they detected acoustic signals from the jet’s flight data recorders.
悉尼澳大利亚——本周四晚间，搜索人员恢复了对失踪的马航370航班飞机的深海水下搜寻工作。他们使用一个远程控制的潜水器，在一个特定区域的海底开展搜索。搜索人员仍然相信，他们在该区域检测到了370航班飞行数据记录器发出的音频信号。
A Chinese survey ship, Zhu Kezhen, will also begin mapping the ocean floor before commercial operators that will use towed side-scan sonar equipment when they join the search to try to locate debris from the missing jet.
中国调查船“竺可桢”号也将开始对洋底进行测绘。之后，一些商业公司也会加入进来，利用拖曳式侧扫声纳设备定位这架飞机的残骸。
The Boeing 777 veered off course on a routine flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing on March 8 with 239 people onboard. No trace of the jet has been found, despite a surface search that lasted almost two months before the authorities changed course, reviewing all their data and beginning a more arduous search of the seafloor in an area more than 500 miles off the northwest coast of Australia.
3月8日，在从马来西亚吉隆坡飞往北京的一个常规航班中，这架载有239人的波音777客机偏离了航道，至今尚未发现它的任何痕迹。在进行了近两个月的海面搜索之后，相关当局改变了做法，对所有数据进行核查，并开始在距离澳大利亚西北海岸逾500英里之外的一处海底，开展更加艰巨的搜索工作。
The search coordinator, Angus Houston, said he was confident that the best information on the whereabouts of the plane remained the seven pings, or electronic handshakes, transmitted before the jet disappeared from radar screens. Inmarsat, a global satellite communications company, said it would soon publish a full record of the communications received from the plane the day it disappeared.
搜索行动的协调人安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)表示，他相信，关于370航班的下落，最可靠的信息仍然是该飞机从雷达屏幕上消失之前发出的七个ping信号，或称电子握手。全球卫星通讯公司国际海事卫星组织(Inmarsat)表示，对于370航班消失当天，该机构收到的来自它的通信信息，他们将尽快公布一份完整记录。
“The work that has been done by the satellite subgroup, the analysis of the pings, the manual handshakes between aircraft and satellite and ground station, I think all of that is very relevant to finding the right areas to be searching in,” Mr. Houston said in a televised interview. He said he was absolutely certain “that the aircraft turned left out of the Malacca Strait and that we are looking in the right broad area — the area defined by the arc created from the seventh ping.”
“这项工作是通过部分卫星群，对Ping信号的分析，对飞机和卫星与地面站之间的人工握手的分析而进行的，我认为，对于找到合适的区域进行搜索，所有这一切都非常重要。”休斯顿在一次电视采访中说。他说，他绝对肯定“这架飞机向左转弯，离开了马六甲海峡，而我们是在正确的大范围内寻找——该区域是由第七个ping信号引出的弧线划定的。”
The remote-controlled submersible, the Bluefin-21, had searched what was believed to be the likely crash zone, covering about 150 square miles of the ocean floor at depths of close to 14,800 feet, when searchers were forced to bring it to the surface because of equipment failure. That search centered on an area where an Australian naval vessel, Ocean Shield, had detected two sets of acoustic pings, on April 5 and 8, thought to have come from the aircraft’s black boxes before the batteries in the data recorders expired.
遥控潜水器“蓝鳍-21”(Bluefin-21)已经搜索了这片疑为坠机发生的区域，在1.48万英尺的深度覆盖了约150平方英里的海床，后由于设备发生故障，搜索者被迫将其升至海面。这次搜索的区域，是4月5日和8日澳大利亚海军舰艇“海盾”号发现的两组音频ping信号发出的地方。人们认为，370航班的黑匣子数据记录器在电池耗尽之前，发出了这两组信号。
“Over the next week, Bluefin-21 will search the remaining areas in the vicinity of the acoustic signals detected in early April by the towed pinger locator deployed from Ocean Shield that are within its depth operating limits,” the Joint Agency Coordination Center, the Australian agency in charge of the search, said in a statement. “This continues the process that will ultimately enable the search team to discount or confirm the area of the acoustic signals as the final resting place” of the flight.
“在接下来的一周中，‘蓝鳍-21’将在其极限操作深度之内，搜索‘海盾’号拖曳式ping信号定位器在4月初检测到的音频信号发出位置的附近剩下的区域，”负责搜索的澳大利亚机构联合机构协调中心(Joint Agency Coordination Center)在一份声明中表示。“这个过程会继续下去，最终这将让搜索团队确定，发出音频信号的这片区域是否是370航班的最终安息之地”。
The agency said Australia’s defense force and the Australian Transport Safety Bureau were working with Chinese units to conduct the deep-water survey. A Chinese ship, Haixun 01, will return to the search zone to transport survey data back to port at Fremantle, in the state of Western Australia, where it will be processed.
该机构表示，澳大利亚的国防部队和澳大利亚交通安全局(Australian Transport Safety Bureau)正在与中方展开合作，进行深水勘察。中国船只“海巡01”轮将返回搜索区域，把调查数据传回到西澳大利亚州的弗里曼特尔港，数据将在那里进行处理。
Mr. Houston said it was imperative that Australia “be involved to the maximum extent possible to try and find the aircraft,” adding that there would be “some sharing of the burden associated with those costs.”
休斯顿说，当务之急是澳大利亚“尽最大可能地参与飞机搜寻”，并称“和搜寻有关的费用会进行一定程度的分摊”。
“But the focus must be on continuing the search and doing the oceanographic survey, the bathymetric survey, to enable the deep-water search along the defined search area,” he said. “There is still a long way to go in the search.”
“但重点必须放在继续搜索上，放在海洋学勘测和测深学勘测上，以便能沿着划定的搜索区域进行深水搜索，”他说。“这场搜索还有很长的路要走。”