WASHINGTON — The first turn to the west that diverted the missing Malaysia Airlines plane from its planned flight path from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing was carried out through a computer system that was most likely programmed by someone in the plane’s cockpit who was knowledgeable about airplane systems, according to senior American officials.
华盛顿——原定从吉隆坡飞往北京的失联马航飞机，其首次向西改变方向的过程是通过一个计算机系统实现的，这个计算机系统极有可能被某个身在飞机驾驶舱里的、熟悉飞机系统的人改动了，美国高级官员表示。
Instead of manually operating the plane’s controls, whoever altered Flight 370’s path typed seven or eight keystrokes into a computer on a knee-high pedestal between the captain and the first officer, according to officials. The Flight Management System, as the computer is known, directs the plane from point to point specified in the flight plan submitted before a flight. It is not clear whether the plane’s path was reprogrammed before or after it took off.
这些官员表示，这个改变了370航线的人没有采取手动方式操作这架飞机的控制装置，而是在一台计算机上敲击了七、八次按键，从而输入指令。这台计算机位于机长和副驾驶之间的基座上，高度与膝盖相当，名为“飞行管理系统”（Flight Management System，简称FMS），它根据飞行前提交的飞行计划中指明的航点，引导飞机从一个点飞到另一个点。目前尚不清楚这架飞机的航线是在起飞之前还是之后重新设定的。
The fact that the turn away from Beijing was programmed into the computer has reinforced the belief of investigators — first voiced by Malaysian officials — that the plane was deliberately diverted and that foul play was involved. It has also increased their focus on the plane’s captain and first officer.
偏离前往北京的航线被编程输入FMS这件事，不仅让调查员们更加相信这架飞机的转向是有人故意而为，牵涉违规行为，也让他们进一步把注意力聚焦在机长和副驾驶身上。上述观点最初由马来西亚官员提出。
Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia told reporters on Saturday that his government believed that the plane had been diverted because its transponder and other communications devices had been manually turned off several minutes apart. American officials were told of the new information over the weekend.
马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)上周六告诉记者，该国政府认为这架飞机的航向被改变了，因为它的应答器和其他通信设备在几分钟内先后被手动关闭。美国官员在周末获悉了相关的新信息。
But the Malaysian authorities on Monday reversed themselves on the sequence of events they believe took place on the plane in the crucial minutes before ground controllers lost contact with it early on March 8. They said it was the plane’s first officer — the co-pilot — who was the last person in the cockpit to speak to ground control. And they withdrew their assertion that another automated system on the plane, the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System, or Acars, had already been disabled when the co-pilot spoke.
不过，马来西亚当局在本周一转变了自己对飞机和地面控制人员失联前关键的几分钟内，机上事件发生顺序所做的推论，当时是3月8日凌晨。他们表示，飞机上的大副——即副驾驶——是在机舱里和地面控制人员最后交谈的那个人。他们撤消了副驾驶说话时，飞机上的另一套自动驾驶系统已经失效的推断，该系统的名称是飞机通信寻址与报告系统（Aircraft Communication Addressing and Reporting System，简称Acars）。
Flight 370’s Flight Management System reported its status to the Acars, which in turn transmitted information back to a maintenance base, according to an American official. This shows that the reprogramming happened before Acars stopped working. The Acars ceased to function about the same time that oral radio contact was lost and the airplane’s transponder also stopped, fueling suspicions that foul play was involved in the plane’s disappearance.
据一名美国官员说，370次航班的FMS会向Acars通报自己的情况，Acars随后会把讯息传回维修基地。这一点显示，重新编程发生在Acars停止运转之前。Acars的停转和口头无线电联络的丧失几乎是同时发生的，而飞机应答器也在这时停止了运转，这让人怀疑飞机的失联是一出阴谋。
Investigators are scrutinizing radar tapes from when the plane first departed Kuala Lumpur because they believe the tapes will show that after the plane first changed its course, it passed through several pre-established “waypoints,” which are like virtual mile markers in the sky. That would suggest that the plane was under control of a knowledgeable pilot, because passing through those points without using the computer would have been unlikely.
调查人员正在调查飞机一开始离开吉隆坡时的雷达监控录像，因为他们认为，录像将显示飞机第一次更改航线后所经过的几个预先设置的“航路点”，这些航路点就像天空中的虚拟飞行标志。这表明，飞机处于知识丰富的飞行员的控制之下，因为在不使用电脑的情况下穿越这些点，几乎是不可能的。
According to investigators, it appears that a waypoint was added to the planned route. Pilots do that in the ordinary course of flying if air traffic controllers tell them to take a different route, to avoid weather or traffic. But in this case, the waypoint was far off the path to Beijing.
据调查人员透露，预定航线上似乎被添加了一个航路点。在常规飞行途中，如果空中交通指挥员通知飞行员更改航线，以躲避某些天气现象或其他航班，那么飞行员会这样做。然而在这一事件中，航路点远远偏离了去北京的航线。
Whoever changed the plane’s course would have had to be familiar with Boeing aircraft, though not necessarily the 777 — the type of plane that disappeared. American officials and aviation experts said it was far-fetched to believe that a passenger could have reprogrammed the Flight Management System.
无论改变飞机航向的是谁，此人都十分熟悉波音(Boeing)飞机，不过不一定要熟悉这款消失班机所属的777机型。美国官员和航空专家说，如果说是乘客对FMS重新编程，恐怕太过牵强了。
Normal procedure is to key in a five-letter code — gibberish to non-aviators — that is the name of a waypoint. A normal flight plan consists of a series of such waypoints, ending in the destination airport. For an ordinary flight, waypoints can be entered manually or uploaded into the F.M.S. by the airline.
正常的操作流程是键入代表航路点名称的五字母代码，如果不是飞行员，这些代码就会显得毫无意义。正常的飞行路线中包含一系列航路点，最后是目的地机场。对于常规的航班，航路点既可以手动输入，也可以由航空公司上传到FMS系统中。
One of the pilots keys in a waypoint on a separate screen known as a scratchpad, and after confirming that it has no typographical errors, pushes another button to move it into the sequence already in the flight plan. Normal practice is to orally confirm the waypoint with the other pilot, then push another button to instruct the airplane to go there. With the change in course, the plane would bank at a comfortable angle, around 20 degrees, and make the turn. Passengers would not feel anything unusual.
一名飞行员在一块单独的屏幕上键入航路点，这块屏幕称为“草稿板”(scratchpad)。确认输入无误后，他会按另一个按钮将这个航路点输入到飞行计划既有的序列中。常规做法是与另一名驾驶员口头确认航路点，之后再按另一个按钮指示飞机飞向那里。改变航向时，飞机会倾斜到20度左右的舒适角度，并进行转弯。乘客不会感觉到任何异常。
ABC News reported on Sunday that the programmed turn had led investigators to believe that it was being controlled by the pilot or hijackers.
ABC新闻频道(ABC News)周日报道，通过编程实现的转弯操作，促使调查人员相信飞机当时是由飞行员或劫机者控制的。
One American safety expert, John Cox, a former airline union safety official, said that someone taking such pains to divert the plane does not fit the pattern of past cases when pilots intentionally crashed and killed everyone on board.
美国安全专家约翰·考克斯(John Cox)说，有人如此大费周章地让飞机偏离航线，并不符合过去案件中的模式：飞行员蓄意制造坠机，使机上所有人死亡。考克斯曾是航空行业工会的安全官员。
“There’s an inconsistency in what we’ve seen historically,” he said, comparing the disappearance of Flight 370 with two murder-suicides, on anEgyptair flight off Nantucket Island in 1999 and a SilkAir jet in Indonesia in 1997. In those crashes, he said, the pilot involved simply pushed the nose of the plane down and flew into the water. The authorities searched the homes of the pilots in Kuala Lumpur on Saturday, seizing a flight simulator that one of them had in his home.
“这和我们之前遇到过的并不一致，”他在对比370航班和之前两起自杀式坠机事件的差异时说。他提到的分别是埃及航空(Egyptair)的飞机1999年在南塔克特岛附近坠机的事件，以及1997年胜安航空(SilkAir)在印度尼西亚的坠机事件。他说，在那两次事故中，飞行员将机头向下一压飞机便一头栽进水里。调查人员周六搜查了两位飞行员在吉隆坡的家，并在其中一人的家里收缴了一套飞行模拟器。
In an effort to determine whether the pilot had practiced taking down the plane, the authorities have reassembled the simulator for experts to examine. American investigators would like access to the flight simulator and any other electronic information seized from the pilots, but as of Monday night they had not been given access to those materials.
为了调查飞行员之前是否练习过如何令飞机坠毁，官员们重新组装了飞行模拟器以供专家检查。美方的调查人员希望可以检查飞行模拟器，以及其他从飞行员处获得的电子信息，但截至周一晚上他们还没有获得接触这些资料的许可。
Meanwhile, as the search for the missing Boeing 777 jet stretched into a 10th day, two of the nations helping in the hunt, Australia and Indonesia, agreed to divide between them a vast area of the southeastern Indian Ocean, with Indonesia focusing on equatorial waters and Australia beginning to search farther south for traces of the aircraft. To the north, China and Kazakhstan checked their radar records and tried to figure out whether the jet could have landed somewhere on their soil.
与此同时，对这架波音777飞机的搜寻已经进入了第十天。帮助寻找失联客机的澳大利亚和印尼同意划分区域，分头在广阔的印度洋东南海域寻找。印尼集中在赤道水域搜寻，澳大利亚则向南延伸寻找飞机的踪迹。在北部区域，中国和哈萨克斯坦核查了雷达记录，试图确认飞机是否可能降落在了两国的领土上。