Taiwan will halt the construction of a nuclear power plant that had met with public opposition and raised concerns about safety, the governing party has announced.
台湾执政党宣布，台湾将停止修建一座遭到公众反对并引发安全问题的核电站。
The decision followed several large protests in Taipei and a hunger strike by a former leader of the opposition Democratic Progressive Party.
做出这一决定之前，台北发生了几次大规模抗议活动，反对党民进党前主席还进行了绝食抗议。
The move was announced on Sunday after a meeting of county and city officials from the governing party, the Kuomintang, which is headed by President Ma Ying-jeou.
周日，以马英九为首的执政党国民党召开了县市首长会议，会后宣布了这一措施。
Work on the Lungmen nuclear plant, which would be Taiwan’s fourth, started more than a decade ago in the island’s northeast, about 20 miles outside the capital, Taipei. It has been frequently delayed, and opposition to the project intensified following the 2011 Fukushima disaster in Japan.
龙门核电厂位于台湾东北部距首都台北市约32公里处，十几年前即已开始建设，建成之后将是台湾的第四个核电厂。该电厂的建设工作时常推延，自2011年日本福岛核电站灾难以来，反对该项目的声音更加激烈。
The government has argued that the plant, which is expected to supply about 10 percent of Taiwan’s power, is needed to help meet growing demand for electricity. But Mr. Ma has seen his popularity fall to near all-time lows in recent months, and he has faced strong opposition on many policy fronts. An effort to push through legislative approval of a trade deal with China was thwarted after student-led protesters occupied the legislature for more than three weeks in March and April.
政府辩称，这一核电厂预计会为台湾提供约10%的电力，台湾需要靠它来满足不断增长的用电需求。但是，马英九近几个月的支持率下降到了几近历史最低的水平，他在很多政策方面都遇到强大的阻力。他努力推动立法院批准一项与中国大陆的贸易协议，但却受阻于三四月间的一场抗议运动，其间由学生领导的抗议者占领了立法院，时间长达3周多。
The Kuomintang announcement said that the first reactor on the Lungmen plant, which is near completion, would undergo safety testing and then be mothballed. Work will stop on the second reactor, and a referendum will then be held to determine whether the plant, also commonly known as No. 4, will be completed and go online, the announcement said.
国民党发布的公告称，几近完工的龙门核电厂首座反应堆将接受安全测试，之后会被封存。第二座反应堆的建设工作将会停止，之后通过全民公决来确定亦称第四核电厂的龙门核电厂是否可以建设完成并投入使用。
Taipower, the state-run utility that is building the plant at a cost of more than $9 billion, says the first reactor is more than 95 percent finished and the second more than 90 percent. Taipower’s chairman, Hwang Jung-chiou, told Taiwan’s state-owned Central News Agency that stopping construction of the plant would force the company to declare bankruptcy.
负责建设电厂的是国有的台湾电力公司，电厂耗资逾90亿美元（约合560亿元人民币）。该公司称，第一座反应堆的已经完工95%以上，第二座反应堆也完工了90%以上。台湾电力公司董事长黄重球在接受台湾国有通讯社中央社采访时说，如果电厂停建，该公司将被迫宣布破产。
Mr. Ma met last week with the opposition party chairman, Su Tseng-chang, to discuss a referendum, and while both sides agreed that a vote should be held, they differed on the timing and on what level of voter turnout should be required to validate any result. Mr. Su had argued that the vote should be held as soon as possible, with a lower threshold than the 50 percent turnout normally required.
马英九上周与反对党主席苏贞昌会面，就举行公决一事进行了讨论。双方都认为应该举行公决，但却在公决时间和投票率下限方面发生了分歧。苏贞昌要求尽早举行投票，投票率下限应该比通常的50%要低。
On Sunday, Mr. Su called the Kuomintang announcement on the plant vague and said it should come from a government body. He called on Prime Minister Jiang Yi-huah to explain the decision as soon as possible.
苏贞昌周日称，国民党关于这一核电厂的公告很模糊。他说，应该由一个政府机构来发布这一公告。他呼吁行政院长江宜桦尽早对这一决定做出解释。
Mr. Jiang confirmed the decision on Monday, saying that the move to halt construction was not the same as abandoning the project and that the government wanted to keep open the possibility of adding nuclear power capacity in the future.
江宜桦周一证实了这一决定，称停建举措与放弃这一项目不同，政府希望保留将来增加核电产能的可能性。
Protesters had taken to the streets of Taipei over the weekend to demand that construction of the plant be stopped. On Sunday, tens of thousands of demonstrators gathered near the Presidential Office Building, chanting “Stop Nuclear Plant No. 4, Return Power to the People.” They festooned the barbed wire barricades surrounding Mr. Ma’s office with yellow and black ribbons displaying their slogan. Organizers said about 50,000 protesters participated; the police estimated the crowd at 28,500 at its peak.
周末期间，抗议者走上台北街头要求停建这座核电厂。周日，成千上万的抗议者聚集在总统府附近，举着“还权于民，停建核四”的标语。他们在马英九办公室周围的铁丝网栅栏上系上了黄黑色的标语布条。组织者说，约有5万人参加了抗议活动，警方则预计最多时抗议者有28500人。
“Taiwan has lots of earthquakes, and we put these nuclear power plants next to the sea,” said Lin Chin-lung, a 47-year-old who works in finance and first joined the antinuclear demonstrations last year. “The earthquake in Japan, that was important in making people pay attention to the risks we’re talking about.”
47岁的林金隆（音译）从事金融业，去年才开始参加反核抗议活动。他说，“台湾多地震，我们又把核电厂建在海边。日本的地震是个重大的教训，它让人们关注我们谈论的危险。”
The protesters marched to a main street near the central train station on Sunday afternoon. The police used water cannons to disperse some of the demonstrators in the early hours of Monday morning.
周日下午，抗议者行进到了中心火车站附近的一条大街上。周一凌晨，警方用水枪驱散了一些抗议者。
The protesters say they were inspired in part by Lin Yi-hsiung, a former chairman of the Democratic Progressive Party, who began a hunger strike against the nuclear plant on April 22. Mr. Lin, 72, was staging his hunger strike at Gikong Presbyterian Church, located in a house where Mr. Lin’s mother and twin daughters were stabbed to death in 1980. Those killings, which have never been solved, occurred while Mr. Lin was in detention on sedition charges related to his pro-democracy activism.
抗议者称，他们部分是受到了民进党前主席林义雄的鼓励，72岁的林义雄从4月22日开始绝食抗议修建这座核电厂，抗议地点则是义光教会所在的那座房子，1980年，林义雄的母亲以及两个双胞胎女儿在那座房子被人刺杀。这起刺杀案至今未破，事发当时，林义雄正因煽动罪名遭到拘押，罪名与他倡导民主的活动有关。
Mr. Ma and Mr. Jiang both visited the church but were unable to meet with Mr. Lin.
马英九和江宜桦都曾到这所教会去探访，但却未见到林义雄。
“I respect what Lin Yi-hsiung is doing,” said Huang Hui-chang, a 60-year-old retired construction worker who joined the antinuclear demonstration on Sunday. “But we are still waiting to see if it will have any effect on Ma Ying-jeou.”
60岁的退休建筑工人黄辉昌（音译）参加了周日的反核抗议活动，他说，“我尊重林义雄的行动。但我们还在等着看，这对马英九起不起作用。”