MOSCOW — A Malaysia Airlines flight with nearly 300 people aboard crashed over eastern Ukraine near the Russian border on Thursday, the Ukraine government and a regional European aviation official reported, and the Interfax news agency said it had been shot down.
莫斯科——乌克兰政府和一名欧洲航空官员称，周四，马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)一架载有近300人的飞机在乌克兰东部、临近俄罗斯边境的地方坠毁。俄罗斯国际文传电讯社称，飞机是被击落的。
Ukraine’s president, Petro O. Poroshenko, said in a statement that he was calling for an immediate investigation of the crashed flight, a Boeing 777. He did not rule out that it might have been shot down.
乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)在声明中称，他呼吁立即对波音777航班坠毁进行调查。他并未排除飞机被击落的可能性。
Eastern Ukraine has been roiled for months by a violent pro-Russian separatist uprising in which a number of military aircraft have been downed. But this would be the first commercial airline disaster resulting from the hostilities in Ukraine.
数月以来，乌克兰东部持续动荡，在亲俄分裂势力的暴力活动中，多架军用飞机坠毁。但这是首次商业航空在乌克兰危机中遭遇灾难。
Malaysia Airlines, still reeling from the mysterious loss of another Boeing 777 flight in March, said it had lost contact with a flight, MH17, from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur over Ukraine but offered no further details immediately. Malaysia’s prime minister, Mohd Najib Tun Razak, said in a Twitter post that he was “shocked by reports that an MH plane crashed. We are launching an immediate investigation.”
3月份一架波音777客机神秘失踪，此事至今困扰着马来西亚航空。航空公司称，这次从阿姆斯特丹飞往吉隆坡MH17航班在乌克兰上空和地面失去了联系，但没有立即提供进一步的细节。马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克在Twitter上称，他“对马航客机坠毁的报道感到震惊。我们将立即进行调查。”
Hishammuddin Hussein, Malaysia’s defense minister, responded to reports that the aircraft had disappeared and might have been shot down by posting a series of terse messages on Twitter: “Monitoring this closely,” said one. In another, he referred to the ministry of defense in saying that, “I have directed MINDEF to get confirmation.”
马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)针对飞机失踪并可能被击落的报道，在Twitter上发表了一系列简短的回应。其中一条为“正在密切关注”。在另一条中，他提到国防部，称“我已经命令国防部确认消息”。
Andrei Purgin, deputy prime minister of the Donetsk People’s Republic, the insurgent group in eastern Ukraine, denied in a telephone interview that the rebels had anything to do with the downing of the passenger jet. He said the rebels had shot down Ukrainian planes before but that their anti-aircraft weapons could only reach to around 4,000 meters, far below the level of passenger jets.
东乌克兰叛军组织顿涅茨克人民共和国副总理安德烈·普尔金(Andrei Purgin)在电话采访中否认了反政府武装与客机的坠毁有任何关系。他说，叛军曾击落过乌克兰的飞机，但他们的防空武器只能打到4000米的高度，比客机的飞行高度低得多。