The search for the missing Malaysian airliner was suspended on Thursday, the second time this week that severe weather in the southern Indian Ocean had made flying to the possible wreckage zone too risky for search crews.
搜寻失踪马来西亚客机的工作周四因天气原因暂停，这是本周第二次因天气状况而暂停工作，南印度洋上的恶劣天气给搜寻人员飞往可能是飞机残骸区域带来太多的危险。
Lt. Cmdr. Adam Schantz, the head of an American team flying a Navy surveillance plane, said the search zone was afflicted by “severe turbulence, severe icing and basically zero visibility.” “Anyone who is out there is coming home,” he said at the Perth airport. “And all additional sorties are canceled.”
海军少校亚当·尚茨(Adam Schantz)是乘海军侦查机进行搜索的一个美国团队的负责人，他说，搜索区域上空有“严重的湍流，严重的结冰，以及基本为零的能见度。”他在珀斯机场说，“所有飞去的人都回来了。所有其他的飞行计划也都已取消。”
There were hopes that search flights on Thursday would scour the area where European satellite images made public Wednesday showed 122 floating objects. If confirmed as wreckage from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, the search could have been considerably narrowed.
人们原本希望能在周四对周三公布的欧洲卫星图像区域进行全面的飞行搜索，那些图像显示了122个漂浮物。如果能确实那些漂浮物是马来西亚航空公司370航班残骸的话，搜索范围将会大幅缩小。
A Thai government agency said Thursday that it, too, had spotted from one of its satellites what appeared to be a relatively compact field of debris near the search zone. The images were taken on Monday, one day after the European satellite pictures.
一个泰国政府机构周四称，该机构的一个卫星也在搜索区域附近发现了一片看来相对密集的碎片区。这些图像是周一拍摄的，比欧洲卫星拍摄图像的日子晚一天。
The head of the Thai agency, the Geo-Informatics and Space Technology Development Agency, told reporters in Bangkok that the images showed around 300 objects over an area of 450 square kilometers. The agency said it was confident that the images showed floating objects but cautioned that it could not describe them in detail because the images were of a relatively low resolution.
泰国地理信息太空技术发展局(Geo-Informatics and Space Technology Development Agency)的负责人在曼谷向记者表示，卫星图像显示在450平方公里的一片区域内约有300个物体。该局称确信其卫星图像显示的是漂浮物，但警告说，由于图像的分辨率相对较低，无法更详细地描述那些物体。
After two and a half weeks of searches, there have been multiple sightings of possible debris, but no wreckage has been retrieved. Flight 370 took off from Kuala Lumpur on March 8 and veered southward into the Indian Ocean for unknown reasons. The probable area of impact of the aircraft, calculated from satellite pings emitted by the plane before it went down, is more than 620,000 square miles, or roughly three times the size of mainland France.
在两周半的搜索工作中，已经多次拍到可能是飞机碎片的图像，但还没有打捞到任何残骸。马航370航班于3月8日从吉隆坡起飞后，由于未知原因，掉头朝南飞向印度洋。用飞机坠落前向卫星发出的ping信号所做的计算得出的飞机可能坠毁区域的面积超过160万平方公里，大概相当于法国本土面积的3倍。
Search aircraft have only been able to search roughly 5 percent of that area each day.
执行搜索任务的飞机每天只能搜寻上述区域的约5%。
Six military and five civilian aircraft had been due to search in the area Thursday, according to the Australian Maritime Safety Authority.
澳大利亚海事安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)表示，6架军用飞机和5架民用飞机原定于周四前往该区域执行搜寻任务。
Five ships, including four Chinese vessels, are also in the vicinity, but it seems unlikely they would be able to search on Thursday because of the poor conditions.
包括4艘中国船只在内的5艘船只也在附近海域，但由于天气恶劣，它们可能也无法在周四进行搜索。
Commander Schantz said clouds were down to the surface of the water and visibility was so bad that aircraft would have trouble seeing their wingtips.
尚茨说，云层离海面很近，能见度极低，以至于飞机上的人很难看到机翼尖。
The search area is known as the “roaring forties” — a reference to the latitude and notoriously fierce weather conditions.
搜索区域位于所谓的“咆哮西风带”，这是南纬40度附近的一个以恶劣天气著名的地带。
Roger Badham, a meteorologist based near Sydney, said there might be a break in the weather on Friday but that more rain was forecast for Sunday, with low clouds likely to again reduce visibility from aircraft.
悉尼附近的气象学家罗格·巴德汉姆(Roger Badham)说，周五的天气可能会好转，但周日会有更多降雨，制造降雨的低云层可能会再次降低飞机上的能见度。
But the weather in the search zone is unpredictable and difficult to forecast, especially because the nearest climate monitoring stations are on the Australian mainland and in Antarctica, according to the Australian Bureau of Meteorology.
虽然这么说，但是搜索区域的天气变幻莫测，也很难预报，尤其是因为离该区域最近的气象监测站或位于澳大利亚大陆、或在南极洲，据澳大利亚气象局(Australian Bureau of Meteorology)提供的信息。
Mr. Badham and other experts say search efforts will be increasingly challenging as winter approaches.
巴德汉姆和其他专家说，随着冬季的到来，搜索工作将会面临越来越多的挑战。