SEPANG, Malaysia — A signaling system was disabled on the missing Malaysia Airlines jet before a pilot spoke to air traffic control without mentioning any trouble, a senior Malaysian official said Sunday, reinforcing theories that one or both of the pilots may have been involved in diverting the plane and adding urgency to the investigation of their pasts and possible motivations.
马来西亚雪邦——一名马来西亚高级官员周日称，在失踪的马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)MH370航班的一套信号系统被关闭后，一名飞行员曾与航空交通管制人员通话，当时却并未提及任何问题。这一说法为机上一名或全部两名飞行员与飞机偏离航线有关的推测提供了佐证，也表明有关方面应加快对两人背景和潜在动机的调查。
With the increasing likelihood that Flight 370 was purposefully diverted and flown  thousands of miles from its planned route, Malaysian officials faced more questions about an investigation, marked by days of contradictory government statements, that has ballooned into a global goose chase for information.
随着MH370故意改道并偏离预定航线飞行了数千英里的可能性逐渐加大，马来西亚官员面临着越来越多关于调查的问题。数天以来，马来政府不断发出自相矛盾的声明，此次调查迅速变成了一场关于信息的全球性徒劳追逐。
Prime Minister Najib Razak acknowledged Saturday that military radar and satellite data raised the possibility that the plane could have ended up somewhere in Indonesia, the southern Indian Ocean or along a vast arc of territory from northern Laos across western China to Central Asia. Malaysian officials said they were scrambling to coordinate a 25-nation effort to find the plane.
马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)周六宣布，军方雷达和卫星数据表明，飞机可能飞到了印度尼西亚或南印度洋的某个地方，或者处在一条从老挝北部经中国西部延伸到中亚的漫长弧线上。马来官员称，为了找到飞机，他们正在紧急协调一次有25国参与的行动。
On Sunday, Malaysia’s defense minister added a critical detail about investigators’ understanding of what had transpired in the cockpit in the 40 minutes of flight time before ground controllers lost contact with the jet. The determination that the last verbal message to the control tower — “All right, good night,” someone said — came after a crucial signaling system had stopped transmitting, perhaps after being shut off, was likely to refocus scrutiny on the plane’s veteran pilot, Capt. Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, and his young first officer, Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27. 
周日，马来西亚国防部长补充了一条关键信息，内容是依据调查人员的看法，在地面控制人员与飞机失去联系前的40分钟里，飞机的驾驶舱里究竟发生了什么。有关方面确定，飞机最后一次向控制塔发出的语音信息——有人说“一切正常，晚安”——出现在一套关键信号系统停止传输信息之后，该系统可能是人为关闭的。这个观点可能会促使有关方面加强对53岁的资深机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)和27岁的副驾驶法利克·阿卜杜勒·哈米德(Fariq Abdul Hamid)的调查。
Commercial passenger planes use radio or satellite signals to send data through Acars, the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System. The system can monitor engines and other equipment for problems that may need attention when a plane lands, and pilots rarely have any reason to shut it off. 
商用客机通常会用无线电或卫星信号，通过飞机通信寻址与报告系统（Aircraft Communication Addressing and ReportingSystem，简称Acars）发送数据。这套系统能够对机载引擎和其他设备进行监控，以查看飞机在着陆时是否需要处理一些问题，此外，飞行员很少会有关闭这套系统的理由。
But Mr. Najib said Saturday that investigators had concluded “with a high degree of certainty” that Acars stopped functioning on the missing plane some time before another key piece of equipment, the plane’s transponder, “was switched off.” The transponder sends identifying information to radar, and when it goes dead, the plane is essentially  invisible to ground control. With Acars down too, it also becomes much more difficult to later retrace the plane’s route.
但是，纳吉布周六表示，调查人员“几乎可以确定”，失踪飞机的Acars是在另一个关键设备——飞机的应答器——“被关闭”之前停止工作的。应答器会向雷达发送识别信息，如果应答器失灵，地面控制系统就基本无法看到飞机。在Acars也停止工作的情况下，事后确定飞机飞行路线的难度就会大大增加。
A key question in the investigation is whether the pilots shut down the two communication systems or whether a malfunction or fire knocked them out. It had previously been unclear whether the cockpit the last verbal message to Kuala Lumpur International Airport before or after Acars went offline.  
此次调查的一个关键问题是，飞机的两套通讯系统究竟是飞行员关闭的，还是因故障或起火而失灵。之前，调查人员未能确定，飞机驾驶舱向吉隆坡国际机场(Kuala Lumpur International Airport)发送最后一条语音信息的时间是在Acars停止工作之前或之后。
During a news conference on Sunday, the defense minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, who is also acting minister of transportation, gave a terse answer: “Yes, it was disabled before.”
马来西亚国防部长兼代理交通部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)在周日的新闻发布会上给出了一个简洁的回答：“是的，这套系统之前就被关闭了。”
The fate of the plane and the people it carried has become a formidable riddle, raising questions about terrorism, the identities of passengers and crew members, aviation technology and searching an enormous area that includes both the Indian Ocean and rugged, remote terrain in Asia.
目前，这架飞机及机上乘客的命运已经变成了一个可怕的谜团，引起了人们的种种疑问，涉及恐怖主义、乘客和机组成员身份、航空技术，以及对包括印度洋和亚洲偏远山地在内的广阔区域的搜索工作。
“It’s something of the scope I’ve never seen before,” Cmdr. William Marks, the spokesman for the United States Navy Seventh Fleet, which sent two guided-missile destroyers to join the search, said in a telephone interview. Of the size of the Indian Ocean, he added: “Essentially, it’s like looking for a person somewhere between New York and California. It’s that big.”
“我从没见过规模如此巨大的行动，”美国第七舰队发言人威廉·马克斯中校(William Marks)在电话采访中说。该舰队已派遣两艘导弹驱逐舰加入搜索。他还说，从印度洋的面积来看，“这基本就跟在纽约州和加州之间寻找某个人一样。工作量太大了。”
Malaysian officials on Sunday briefed representatives from 22 countries  that could help search along the two corridors where satellite data indicate the plane may have wound up, having flown up to six hours after its disappearance beyond the range of military radar in western Malaysia. Mr. Hishammuddin said Malaysia would also ask China, France, the United States and other countries to provide satellite data.
周日，马来官员向来自22个国家的代表作了简报，这些国家会为沿两条走廊展开的搜索工作提供帮助。卫星数据表明，从位于马来西亚西部的军方雷达的覆盖范围中消失之后，飞机继续飞行了六个小时，目前可能位于这两条走廊上的某个地方。希沙姆丁说，马来西亚还将请求中国、法国、美国及其他一些国家提供卫星数据。
But establishing what happened to the plane also depends on reconstructing events in the cockpit in the early morning of March 8, when the jet was passing over the Gulf of Thailand between northern Malaysia and southern Vietnam. At that time, its communications links were severed, and it changed direction, flying across the Malay Peninsula and out over the Strait of Malacca. 
但是，要弄清飞机究竟出了什么事情，还取决于能否还原3月8日凌晨飞机驾驶舱里发生的事件，那时飞机正在飞越位于马来西亚北部和越南南部之间的泰国湾。当时，飞机的通讯系统已被切断，飞机改变了航向，正在飞越马来半岛、进入马六甲海峡。
Given the complexity of that feat, experts and American government officials say, experienced aviators, possibly one or both of the pilots, were probably involved, either willingly or under coercion.
专家和美国政府官员称，鉴于这样的飞行难度很大，参与此事的应该是具有丰富飞行经验的人，可能是机上的一名飞行员，也可能是全部的两名飞行员，飞行员可能是出于自愿，也可能是被强迫的。
The plane took off at 12:41 a.m. on March 8 carrying 239 people headed for Beijing and reached a cruising altitude of 35,000 feet at 1:01 a.m. Six minutes later, at 1:07 a.m., the Malaysian authorities say the plane sent its last Acars message, which reported nothing amiss.
飞机于3月8日凌晨12:41起飞，共载有239人，目的地是北京。凌晨1:01，飞机达到35000英尺（约合10668米）的巡航高度。马来西亚官方称，六分钟之后，也就是凌晨1:07，飞机发送了最后一次Acars信息，当时并未报告异常。
Investigators have not said how they concluded the system was disabled or when they believe that took place. It does not send a message when it is turned off. But Mr. Najib said it shut down just before the jet reached the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia, which independent radar tracking recorded at 1:08 a.m.
调查人员并未说明Acars系统被关闭的结论是怎么得来的，也没有说明他们认定的系统关闭时间。关闭之后，系统便无法发出讯息。但纳吉布说，这套系统是在飞机刚要抵达马来半岛东海岸时关闭的，独立雷达的跟踪显示，当时是凌晨1:08。
If the Malaysian account is accurate, and if one of the pilots shut off the system, that would mean he did so just after it transmitted a message.
如果马来西亚方面的说法是准确的，如果其中一名飞行员关闭了系统，那就意味着他在发出一条讯息后立即关闭了系统。
The authorities have not specified what time the last verbal exchange between the cockpit and the air traffic controllers took place. But Mr. Hishammuddin’s statement means it would have occurred between 1:08 a.m. and 1:21 a.m., when the plane’s transponder stopped transmitting and ground control lost contact with the jet.
马来西亚当局没有具体说明驾驶舱最后一次向空中交通管理员发出语音信息的时间。但希沙姆丁的声明说明，发送时间应该是在凌晨1:08至1:21之间，飞机的应答器于1：21停止传送信息，地面控制由此与飞机失去联系。
The sequence of events does not rule out the possibility of someone taking control of the cockpit and forcing the pilot to disable the system, say good night to air traffic control and turn off the transponder. But if that is what happened, it means the hijacker would have had to seize the cockpit in the first 26 minutes of the flight.
这样的事件顺序并不排除这样一种可能性，那就是有人控制了驾驶舱，迫使飞行员关闭Acars系统、向空中交通管理人员道晚安，然后关闭应答器。但如果情况确实如此，这意味着劫持者必须在飞机飞行的前26分钟里控制驾驶舱。
The Malaysian authorities have not singled out the pilots or crew members as the only potential suspects. Officials said on Sunday that they would scrutinize the backgrounds of all passengers and crew members onboard, as well as ground crew and engineers who worked on the Boeing 777 jet.
马来西亚当局没有将飞行员和机组人员列为唯一的潜在嫌疑人。官员们周日表示，他们将对所有乘客和机组人员，以及曾为这架波音777工作的地勤人员和机师进行仔细的背景调查。
“I understand the hunger for new details, but we do not want to jump to conclusions,” Mr. Hishammuddin said.
希沙姆丁表示，“我理解大家急于了解新的细节，但我们不想草草下结论。”
According to the airline, he said, “the pilot and co-pilot did not ask to fly together” on Flight 370. If true, that might undermine speculation that the two men acted in unison in the plane’s disappearance.
他表示，据马航透露，“机长和副驾驶并未要求共同执飞”370航班。这种说法如果属实，可能会削弱相关猜测，即两人合力导致了飞机失联。
Mr. Hishammuddin confirmed that the Malaysian police had searched the homes of the captain and co-pilot in Kuala Lumpur on Saturday. The police took a flight simulator that the pilot, Mr. Zaharie, had kept at his home, and reassembled it for experts to examine, Khalid Abu Bakar, the inspector general of the Malaysian police, told reporters.
希沙姆丁确认，马来西亚警方周日已经对机长和副驾驶位于吉隆坡的住所进行了搜查。马来西亚警察总长哈立德·阿布·巴卡尔(Khalid Abu Bakar)告诉记者，警方带走了机长扎哈里家中的飞行模拟器，并在重新组装后交给专家检查。
Rohan Gunaratna, a professor at Nanyang Technological University in Singapore who studies security and terrorism in Asia, said that while the weight of suspicion would inevitably fall on the pilots and other crew members, investigators were following established procedure by examining everyone on the missing plane.
新加坡南洋理工大学(Nanyang Technological University)研究亚洲地区安全与恐怖主义问题的教授罗汉·古纳拉特纳(Rohan Gunaratna)表示，虽然怀疑不可避免地集中在了飞行员及其他机组人员身上，但调查人员仍在根据既定程序，对失联航班上的所有人员进行调查。
Soon after the plane disappeared, F.B.I. officers and other American investigators “scrubbed” the names of the pilots and passengers, including two Iranian men who were traveling on stolen passports, to determine whether they had any connections to terrorists. They have found no such connections, officials said on Sunday, while cautioning that the home countries of some passengers had not yet supplied full background checks on their citizens who were aboard the plane.
飞机失联后不久，美国联邦调查局(FBI)官员及其他美国调查人员“清查”了飞行员与乘客的名字，以判定他们是否与恐怖分子有关联，乘客中包括两名持失窃护照旅行的伊朗人。官员们周日表示，调查人员没有发现此类联系，同时警告称，有些国家还没提供机上本国公民的完整背景信息。
“You can’t rule anything out, so everyone on the plane must be treated as a potential suspect,” Professor Gunaratna said in a telephone interview. 
古纳拉特纳教授接受电话采访时表示，“不能放过任何一种可能性，因此，飞机上的每个人都应该被视为潜在的嫌疑人。”
Even knowing where to continue the search for the plane is difficult. Until Mr. Najib’s  announcement about the likely course of the plane, many aircraft and ships were devoted to scanning the seas off Malaysia’s east coast — precisely the opposite direction from the new focus of the hunt.
就连确定该去哪里继续搜寻飞机也是件困难的事情。在纳吉布公布飞机的可能路线之前，很多飞机和舰船都聚集在马来西亚东岸的海域进行搜索，方向与新的搜索中心恰好相反。
“Malaysian officials are currently discussing with all partners how best to deploy assets along the two corridors” indicated by satellite data, the Malaysian Transport Ministry said in a written statement. “Both the northern and southern corridors are being treated with equal importance.”
“马来西亚官员正在与各方探讨，如何在”卫星数据指示的“两条走廊上最有效地部署搜索力量，”马来西亚交通部发表书面声明称。“南北两条走廊同样重要。”
A satellite orbiting 22,250 miles over the middle of the Indian Ocean received the final transmission, which, based on the angle from which the plane sent it, came from somewhere along one of the two corridors investigators are exploring.
一颗在印度洋中心上空2.225万英里（约合3.5823万公里）环绕轨道运行的卫星收到了飞机最后发送的信号，飞机发送信号时与卫星所成的角度说明，信号来自调查人员正在搜索的两条走廊上的某个地方。
The northern arc touches southern Kazakhstan and northern Kyrgyzstan in Central Asia before running across a huge portion of western and southwestern China, and ending in northern Laos. To reach most of those areas, the aircraft would have had to traverse heavily militarized areas in China, India or Pakistan, although it could have tried to fly across Myanmar.
北方的弧线穿过中亚地区哈萨克斯坦南部及吉尔吉斯斯坦北部，然后穿过中国西部及西南部的大片区域，终点是老挝北部。要想抵达弧线上的大部分区域，飞机必须飞越中国、印度或巴基斯坦的一些高度军事化区域，不过飞机可以尝试飞越缅甸。
The southern corridor, from Indonesia to the southern Indian Ocean, travels over open water with few islands. If the aircraft took that path, it might have passed near the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Yet those remote Australian islands, with a population of fewer than 1,000 people, have a small airport.
南方走廊从印度尼西亚延伸到南印度洋，途经岛屿稀少的开阔水域。如果飞机沿这条路线飞行，可能会飞过科科斯群岛(基灵群岛)附近。然而，这些属于澳大利亚的偏远岛屿人口不足1000人，只有一个小机场。
“It is a daunting task to even begin to plan how you would search an entire ocean,” said Commander Marks, the spokesman for the Seventh Fleet.
第七舰队发言人马克斯中校表示，“哪怕只是着手计划如何搜遍整个大洋，都是一项艰巨的任务。”
Meanwhile, in the upscale western suburbs of Kuala Lumpur, the families of the pilot and the first officer kept a low profile on Sunday, as local and foreign journalists continued to camp outside their homes.
与此同时，周日，在吉隆坡西郊的高档社区，机长和副驾驶的家属保持着低调，当地记者和外国记者则继续在他们的住所外面守候。