BANGKOK — The government of Malaysia and a U.S. ocean exploration company began a new effort Wednesday to solve one of history’s greatest aviation mysteries: the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 nearly four years ago.
曼谷——马来西亚政府和美国一家海洋勘探公司周三启动了一项新的行动，希望解开史上最大的航空谜团之一：近四年前马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的370航班失踪一事。
Ocean Infinity, a Houston-based company, could receive as much as $70 million if it finds the plane’s debris field or two data recorders within 90 days, Transportation Minister Liow Tiong Lai said Wednesday at a signing ceremony with company officials at Putrajaya, Malaysia’s federal administrative center.
周三，马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tiong Lai)在与该公司的领导在马来西亚联邦行政中心布城举行的签约仪式上说，如果能在90天内找到飞机残骸所在的区域或两台数据记录仪，总部设在休斯顿的公司“海洋无限”(Ocean Infinity)便可获得高达7000万美元（约合4.5亿元人民币）的报酬。
But under the agreement, the company will receive nothing if it does not find the missing Boeing 777, which disappeared over the Indian Ocean on March 8, 2014, with 239 people aboard.
但按照协议，如果找不到这架失踪的波音777，该公司什么都得不到。飞机于2014年3月8日在印度洋上空失踪，机上载有239人。
Under the contract, Malaysia will pay Ocean Infinity $20 million if it finds the wreckage or data recorders early in the search. The potential fee rises in staggered amounts to as much as $70 million, depending on how large an area the vessel searches before locating the plane.
根据合同，如果“海洋无限”在搜索的早期找到残骸或数据记录仪，马来西亚将支付2000万美元；根据搜索船只在确定飞机位置前搜索的区域大小，潜在费用会逐步增加到7000万美元。
The Seabed Constructor, a ship operated by the company, left Durban, South Africa, a week ago to get in position for the search.
一周前，该公司运营的一艘名为“海底建造者”(Seabed Constructor)的船离开南非德班，准备参与搜索。
Last January, Australian officials indefinitely suspended the unsuccessful search for Flight 370 after nearly three years. They concluded that they may have been looking too far south in the Indian Ocean.
去年1月，澳大利亚官方在搜索近三年无果后，无限期暂停对370航班的搜索。他们推断，他们在印度洋的搜索可能太过靠南。
The Australian-led search covered about 46,000 square miles of seabed and produced a trove of scientific information. But after coming up empty, officials concluded that the likely crash site was in an area of about 9,700 square miles north of the initial search zone.
由澳大利亚牵头的搜索覆盖了约4.6万平方英里（约合11.9万平方公里）的海床，并产生了大量科学信息。但未能找到失事飞机后，官方断定，可能的坠机地点位于最初的搜索区以北一个大约9700平方英里（约合2.5万平方公里）的区域。
Ocean Infinity describes itself as a technology company specializing in collecting high-resolution geophysical seabed data. The Seabed Constructor can use up to eight unmanned submarines, known as autonomous underwater vehicles, which can operate independently and at depths of nearly 20,000 feet.
“海洋无限”自称是一家专门收集高清地球物理海床数据的科技公司。“海底建造者”可使用多达八艘无人潜艇，又名自主水下航行器。它们可在近2万英尺（约合6100米）的水下独立运行。
The company says the use of the untethered, deep-diving vehicles means it can search large areas of the ocean floor quickly and effectively.
该公司表示，使用无缆深潜航行器意味着它可以迅速、有效地搜索海底大片区域。
“Whilst there can be no guarantees of locating the aircraft, we believe our system of multiple autonomous vehicles working simultaneously is well-suited to the task at hand,” said Ocean Infinity’s chief executive, Oliver Plunkett.
“虽然不能保证找到飞机的位置，但我们相信，由多台同时工作的自动航行器组成的系统非常适合手头的任务，”“海洋无限”的首席执行官奥利弗·普伦基特(Oliver Plunkett)说。