BEIJING — The families gathered in the ballroom at the Lido Hotel wanted answers. Over a week ago, a jet carrying their loved ones vanished, and for a week the airline executives who appeared before them told different, sometimes contradictory, stories.
北京——聚集在丽都饭店会议厅里的家属们想要答案。一个多星期前，一架载着他们亲人的飞机失踪了，在一周的时间里，航空公司的高管们面对他们给出了各不相同、有时相互矛盾的说法。
“What you say today is different from what you said yesterday,” said one man who had waited along with hundreds of other relatives over the weekend for any morsel of news. Another man said, “How can you still not know after so many days?”
“你今天和昨天说的不一样，”一名男子说。上周末，他和其他几百名家属一同，焦急等待任何只言片语的消息。另一名男子说，“这么多天过去了，你们怎么可能还是不知道？”
As the world puzzles over the fate of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which disappeared on its way to Beijing on March 8, the families of the 239 people aboard the Boeing 777 jet have been stuck in a netherworld between anger and grief, clinging to the remotest hope that their relatives might still be alive as the authorities have offered conflicting and confounding possible narratives.
当全世界都在猜测马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班的命运时，这架波音777飞机上239名人员的亲属一直在愤怒和悲痛的地狱中挣扎，他们仍然没有放弃一个十分渺茫的希望：他们的亲人可能还活着。与此同时，有关部门一直在提供相互矛盾和令人困惑的说法。马航370是3月8日在飞往北京的途中消失的。
The plane went down in the Gulf of Thailand. No, it might have ended up much farther west, in the Strait of Malacca; the military somehow missed seeing it on radar. No, actually it flew onward for much longer — up to eight hours, in fact. And one or more of the 239 people on the plane was in control of the jet the entire time. And now a satellite signal shows that it could be almost anywhere in a broad arc stretching from the Himalayas to Antarctica.
飞机掉进了泰国湾。不，可能飞到了往西远得多的地方，在马六甲海峡；但军方不知怎么在雷达上漏看了。不，事实上它继续飞行了更长时间——长达八小时。而且，239名乘客和机组成员中，有一人或多人全程控制着飞机。现在，有卫星信号显示，飞机有可能落在了从喜马拉雅山到南极洲这一广阔弧形地带中的任何地方。
The announcement on Saturday that the plane appeared to have been intentionally diverted brought a collective gasp from those at the Lido. But it was welcomed as a positive development. A hijacking, no matter how disturbing, still left some hope that the passengers were alive.
周六，当马来西亚方面宣布飞机似乎被刻意改变航线时，身在丽都饭店的所有人都惊讶地喘不过气来。但许多人认为这是一件好事。如果是发生了劫机，无论多么令人不安，乘客仍有生还的希望。
“No news is good news,” one woman said.
一名妇女说，“没有消息就是好消息。”
Explanations have appeared and faded as quickly as jet vapor trails in the sky. On Monday, in the ballroom where the relatives and friends have been meeting daily with airline employees, one woman said enough was enough.
一些解释出现后又很快湮没，速度之快就好像喷气式飞机在天空划下的白烟。周一，在失联客机乘客亲友每天与航空公司工作人员见面的会议厅，一位妇女说，我受够了。
“I don’t care where I sleep or what I eat,” she said, sitting in a circle of six people with a red down jacket enveloping her like a cocoon. “I just want them to find the plane!”
她和五个人围坐在一起，身上的红色羽绒服像茧一样把她裹住。她说，“我不在乎在哪儿睡觉、吃些什么，我只是想让他们找到飞机！”
To say many Chinese are exasperated, astounded or fed up with the way the Malaysian authorities have handled the investigation and search efforts is an understatement.
对于马来西亚当局处理调查和搜寻行动的方式，要说许多中国人都已感到怒不可遏、震惊不已、无法忍受，这还是保守的。
The families of passengers asked one another on Monday the same questions they have been tossing around for 10 days, like “Do you think the Malaysian government is hiding something?” and “Could they have shot it down and covered it up?”
失联乘客家属周一相互询问着10天来一直在琢磨的那些问题，比如，“你觉得马来西亚政府是不是隐瞒了什么？”以及“他们是不是把飞机击落，然后努力遮掩？”
The woman in the red down jacket told the strangers seated around her that her older brother was on the plane. She then turned to members of her own family. “I saw my brother in a dream last night,” she said. “He was on a tropical island. He was in bright sunshine and smiling.”
身穿红色羽绒服的女子告诉身旁坐着的陌生人，她的哥哥在飞机上。然后，她转向了自己的家人。她说，“我昨晚梦见哥哥了。他在一个热带小岛上。明媚的阳光下，他一直在笑。”
Nobody said anything. A woman next to her rubbed her hand.
没有人说话。她旁边的女人摸了摸她的手。
The families in the ballroom have endured briefing after briefing from Malaysia Airlines, the Malaysian ambassador and aviation officials, only to come away with more questions each time. On Saturday, they were told that Malaysian officials were conducting a criminal investigation. About 30 people moved chairs into a circle to discuss what that might mean.
会议厅里的这些家属参加了马来西亚航空公司、马来西亚大使和航空官员一次接一次的情况介绍会，每次会议结束后都会生出更多疑问。周六，他们被告知，马来西亚官员正在进行刑事调查。大约30人搬着椅子围坐成一圈，讨论这可能意味着什么。
A middle-aged man said the families would stick together until there was a definite outcome. “We will march in the streets if we have to,” he said.
一名中年男子说，失踪乘客家属们会坚守在一起，直到有确切结果。“不得已时，我们会上街游行，”他说。
Some airline employees said they would stay with the families until the end.
马航的一些员工称他们会一直陪着家属，直到事情结束。
Tensions in the hotel had been rising. Several Malaysia Airlines employees broke down in tears on Thursday after relentless criticism from the Chinese in the ballroom, which is officially closed to journalists, though some have walked in. At the evening briefing, Ignatius Ong Ming Choy, a senior airline executive, began crying, and a colleague patted his hand. People in the audience kept asking why the Malaysian military did nothing when its radar picked up an unidentified aircraft flying west across Peninsular Malaysia.
酒店里的对立情绪一直在升级。周四，在会议室一些中国人的严厉指责下，几名马航员工泣不成声。理论上，那个大厅不允许记者进入，不过一些记者还是进去了。在晚上的情况通报会上，马航高管王明财(Ignatius Ong Ming Choy)哭了起来，一个同事轻拍着他的手。台下的人一直在问，当雷达发现一架身份不明的飞机正在往西飞越马来半岛时，马来西亚军方为什么不采取任何措施。
The next day, the audience once again assailed airline executives with questions about inaction and incompetence. One man demanded that the authorities publish transcripts of what air traffic controllers said on the night Flight 370 vanished, so the public could check them against the official accounts they have heard since.
第二天，在场人员再次质问马航高管为何不作为、效率低下。一名男子要求马来西亚政府公布370航班消失当晚空中交通管理人员的通讯记录，这样公众就可以与一直以来听到的官方说法进行核对。
Another man asked Hugh Dunleavy, an airline executive, what the military had done after spotting the unidentified radar blip. Mr. Dunleavy said he did not represent the military and had no answer.
另一名男子问马航高管休·邓利维(Hugh Dunleavy)，军方在雷达上发现不明光点后采取了什么措施。邓利维说自己不是军方的代表，无法回答这个问题。
By this point, many people in the audience were crying. One man tried to yell out questions, but he was sobbing so hard that his screams barely resembled speech. His hands were trembling.
到这时，台下的许多人哭了起来。一名男子试图大声提问，但他哭得太厉害，以至于发出的尖叫声几乎不像在说话。他双手颤抖。
“We will give these questions to the authorities,” Mr. Dunleavy said.
“我们会将这些问题转达给当局，”邓利维说。
Another man shouted, “Get the military and the government on the phone now!”
另一名男子喊道，“现在就让军方和政府接电话！”
“We requested that days ago,” Mr. Dunleavy replied. “Now we’ll let them know that this is an emergency.”
“我们几天前就请求过了，”邓利维回答说，“现在我们会让他们知道，事情紧急。”
“It was promised to us yesterday,” the man yelled. “You promised to get the military to call in.”
“昨天就有人承诺过了，”那名男子喊道，“你还承诺过让军方打过来。”
His voice rose with the others, and the swell threatened to drown everything out.
这名男子和其他人的声音都高了起来，像是要淹没一切。
Chinese leaders are making their frustrations known, too. Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, reported on Monday that Prime Minister Li Keqiang told the Malaysian prime minister, Najib Razak, that his government should be providing Beijing with more detailed data and information on the flight in “a timely, accurate and comprehensive manner.”
中国领导人也在表达他们的失望。中国官方通讯社新华社周一报道称，李克强总理告诉马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)，他领导的政府应该“进一步及时、准确、全面”向中国提供更加详细的数据信息。