MOSCOW — The double game that the Kremlin has been accused of playing in eastern Ukraine for weeks — publicly endorsing peace talks while surreptitiously supporting the separatists with arms and men — suddenly appeared less crafty than possibly disastrous on Thursday after the crash of a civilian jetliner in a Ukrainian field.
莫斯科——一些人指责克里姆林宫这几周在乌克兰东部问题上玩双面游戏：表面上赞成和平谈判，暗中却为分裂分子提供武器和人员。本周四，一架民航客机在乌克兰野外坠毁后，这种做法突然显得不那么聪明了，而是可能颇具灾难性。
What brought Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 tumbling out of the sky, killing all 298 people aboard, remained uncertain. But given the immediate suspicions raised in Kiev and Washington that a sophisticated missile ripped it apart, the crash brought the question of who was responsible right to the doorstep of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
马来西亚航空公司的17号航班从空​​中坠落，机上298人全部遇难，导致这起坠机事件的原因仍不明。但基辅和华盛顿很快就怀疑它是被一颗精密导弹击落的，因此“该事件究竟是由谁负责”的问题就被摆在了俄罗斯总统普京面前。
“It is an extremely awkward moment for the Kremlin,” said Dmitry Trenin, director of the Carnegie Moscow Center. “Everyone in the West and in Ukraine is already pointing their fingers at the Kremlin. They are not waiting for an inquiry — they are blaming Russia today.”
“对于克里姆林宫来说，这是一个非常尴尬的时刻，”卡内基莫斯科中心(Carnegie Moscow Center)主任德米特里·特列宁(Dmitry Trenin)说。“在西方和乌克兰，人人都已经把矛头指向了克里姆林宫。他们不是在等待调查——眼下他们已经在指责俄罗斯了。”
Mr. Putin himself pointed the finger at Ukraine.
普京本人则将矛头指向了乌克兰。
During a late cabinet meeting on economic matters, according to a statement on the Kremlin website, he said, “Definitely, the country over whose territory this happened bears the responsibility for this horrible tragedy.”
克里姆林宫网站上的声明称，在讨论经济问题的一个晚间内阁会议上，普京说，“毫无疑问，这场可怕的悲剧是在哪个国家的领土上发生的，哪个国家就该对它负责。”
Mr. Putin, without saying what might have caused the crash, said that “this tragedy could have been avoided” had Ukraine not resumed combat operations in the southeast. A shaky cease-fire lasted 10 days at the end of June.
普京没有说导致坠机的原因可能是什么，而是说，如果乌克兰没有恢复在东南部的作战行动，“这场悲剧本来是可以避免的”。6月底时，那里曾勉强停火10天。
The Russian president said he had instructed all military and civilian agencies to give all possible assistance “in the investigation of this crime.”
俄罗斯总统表示，他已指示所有军事和民事机构“为调查这起犯罪”提供一切可能的援助。
“We shall do everything, at least everything in our power, so that the objective picture of what happened becomes available to our public, the public of Ukraine and the entire world,” he said.
“我们将尽一切力量，至少尽我们所能，为我们的公众、乌克兰公众，以及整个世界呈现客观实情，”他说。
Russia has flatly denied supplying the rebels with men or weapons. But with each passing week, as the bloodshed escalated, new questions were raised about the involvement of the Russian security services. The United States imposed new, tougher economic sanctions against a few Russian banks and its oil industry on Wednesday, in the process accusing Moscow of continuing to arm the separatists.
俄罗斯断然否认为叛军提供过人员或武器。但是每过一周，随着流血事件的不断升级，人们就会提出新的问题，质疑俄罗斯安全部队是否参与其中。本周三，美国对一些俄罗斯银行和石油企业实施了更加严厉的经济制裁，指责莫斯科继续为分裂分子提供武器装备。
The Russian military had already denied this week that it had shot down a Ukrainian military AN-26 cargo plane near the border on Monday with a missile fired from its territory. Ukraine’s defense minister said that plane had been flying at more than 21,000 feet, well beyond the reach of the shoulder-fired antiaircraft missiles the rebels have been known to use.
本周，俄罗斯军方否认它曾击落乌克兰军方的一架AN-26运输机。这架运输机是在周一时，由一枚从乌克兰境内发射的导弹，在边境附近击落的。乌克兰国防部长说，该飞机的飞行高度是2.1万英尺，远远超出了已知的叛军使用的肩扛式防空导弹的射程。
The charges of Russian involvement were being repeated in the case of Flight 17, which was flying higher than 21,000 feet.
而马航17的飞行高度超过了2.1万英尺，乌克兰再次指责俄罗斯参与其中。
Even Russian analysts have scoffed at claims by Mr. Putin and the Russian government that it was pursuing solely a diplomatic end to the crisis in Ukraine, prompted in February by the popular overthrow of a Russian ally in Kiev who had rejected a closer alliance with Europe.
就连俄罗斯分析师们也在嘲笑普京和俄罗斯政府单纯寻求用外交方式解决乌克兰危机的声明。今年2月，俄罗斯在基辅的盟友由于拒绝与欧洲结成更紧密的联盟，被公众推翻，从而引发了乌克兰危机。
“It is a game for Putin,” said a former senior Russian government official this week, speaking anonymously to avoid damaging his relationship with Mr. Putin, who was once an intelligence officer. “He likes to say that he is a peacekeeper from one hand, while from the other he is sending the rebels arms. It is typical K.G.B.”
“这是普京玩的一个花招，”一位前俄罗斯高级政府官员本周表示，他不愿具名，以免破坏和普京之间的关系。普京曾经是情报工作者，“他一边忙着说自己拥护和平，一边又为叛军输送武器。这是典型的克格勃作风。”
The United States, and to a lesser degree European nations, have accused Russia of sending soldiers and weapons across the border for months now, in a barely veiled flow of evermore elaborate weaponry.
美国曾谴责俄罗斯连续数月派遣士兵跨越边境，且源源不断、几乎毫不掩饰地输送越来越精密的武器。欧洲国家也相对缓和地表达过同样的谴责。
On the Ukrainian side, the separatists have similarly refuted receiving much help from Russia, even as their arsenal has come to include tanks, howitzers, shoulder-fired antiaircraft missiles, ground-to-ground multiple-rocket launchers and other heavy weapons. Officials in the Donetsk and Luhansk separatist governments, many of them Russian citizens, said the arsenal was pilfered from Ukrainian bases they had captured.
在乌克兰，分裂分子同样否认接受过俄罗斯的太多援助，但与此同时，他们的武器中已包括坦克、榴弹炮、肩扛防空导弹、地对地多管火箭发射器，以及其他重型武器。顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克分离政府的官员说，这些武器是从他们占领的乌克兰基地一点点取得的。这些官员有很多是俄罗斯公民。
Immediately after Thursday’s crash, the Kremlin issued a short statement summarizing what it called a previously scheduled telephone conversation between Mr. Putin and President Obama. “The parties had a detailed discussion about the crisis in Ukraine,” the statement said.
周四的坠机事件发生后，克里姆林宫立即发布了一份简短声明，概述了普京和美国总统奥巴马的通话内容。这次通话是早已计划好的。声明中说，“双方对乌克兰危机进行了详细的讨论。”
Mr. Putin repeated the need for an immediate cease-fire, objected to what he said was Ukrainian army fire striking inside Russia, and “expressed his disappointment” at the latest round of sanctions.
普京重申了立即停火的必要性，对他所说的乌克兰军队向俄罗斯境内开火一事提出了抗议，并对最近一轮的制裁行动“表达了失望之情”。
The only reference to the crash came in one sentence at the end: “The Russia leader informed the U.S. president of the report received from air traffic controllers immediately prior to their conversation about the crash of a Malaysian airplane over the Ukrainian territory.”
在声明中，只有结尾处的一句话提到了坠机事件：“就在与美国总统的通话前，俄罗斯总统从空管部门获得了一架马来西亚飞机在乌克兰境内坠毁的消息，随后把它告诉给了美国总统。”
But that might have been because Mr. Putin himself was in the air over Eastern Europe late Thursday afternoon, state-run television reported, flying home from Brazil after a six-day Latin American tour.
但根据国有电视台的报道，这可能是因为周四傍晚，普京自己就在欧洲东部上空的一架飞机上，在六天的拉美之行后从巴西飞回国内。
The official line, echoed by state-run television and analysts close to the Kremlin, included plenty of speculation that Ukraine was at fault. Experts interviewed on Rossiya 24, a main cable news show, stressed that there was no evidence that the crash was caused by a missile.
国有电视台和与克里姆林宫关系密切的分析人士重复了官方的说法，其中包括了大量关于乌克兰是罪魁祸首的推测。主流有线新闻台俄罗斯24电视台(Rossiya 24)采访的专家强调说，没有证据证明飞机是被导弹击落的。
One expert noted that Malaysia Airlines had already lost one long-range jet this year, a sign that anything could have happened to another of its aircraft, and suggested that Flight 17 might have collided with a Ukrainian military aircraft because Kiev was lax in not closing Ukraine’s airspace.
一名专家指出，马来西亚航空公司今年已经失去了一架远程喷气式飞机，这意味着，对周四的这架飞机来说，任何事情都有可能发生，并暗示，17次航班可能是与一架乌克兰军机相撞，而这可能是因为基辅疏忽大意，未能关闭乌克兰空域。