It was not an easy meeting. The four Malaysia Airlines employees stood with their hands by their sides at the front of a stuffy room in a Beijing hotel on Monday morning, delivering yet more unwelcome news about the missing Flight MH370, and dodging water bottles hurled by irate listeners.
这不是一次轻松的会面。本周一上午，在北京的一家酒店里，四名马来西亚航空公司的雇员站在一个闷热的房间前方，双手垂在身体两侧，一边发布关于MH730次失联航班的又一些坏消息，一边躲避愤怒的听众扔过来的水瓶。
Unwelcome news meant no news. And by then, relatives and friends of the passengers had spent more than 48 hours pondering, fretting and weeping over what had happened to the flight, which left Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, early Saturday with 239 people on board, most of them Chinese, but never arrived in Beijing.
坏消息的意思是没有消息。截至当时，乘客们的亲友已经等了超过48小时，为失联航班的情况焦虑哭泣。该航班于上周六一早飞离马来西亚首都吉隆坡，却没有抵达北京，机上载有239名乘客，其中大部分是中国人。
“All Malaysians are liars!” one man shouted in Chinese. “Do you know what ‘liars’ means?”
一名男子用中文叫喊，“所有马来西亚人都是骗子！你们知道‘骗子’的意思吗？”
“Tell him in English,” he yelled to the one woman among the four airline employees. She was the interpreter, and the three men were senior managers.
他对四名马航雇员中仅有的一名女性喊道，“你用英文告诉他。”这名女性是翻译，其余三人是马航的高级经理。
They did not respond to the Chinese man. It was unclear if the interpreter translated the insult.
他们没有回应这个中国人的话。翻译是否翻了这句无礼的言辞也不得而知。
The grilling went on for more than 20 minutes. Nearly a hundred people had crammed into the room, some standing on chairs to get a better view. Journalists were officially barred from the room, though a few had quietly walked in.
这场拷问继续了20多分钟。近百人挤进了这个房间，有些人站到了椅子上，以便获得更好的视线。官方禁止记者入内，不过，还是有几个记者悄悄地溜了进去。
Airline employees tried to steer the conversation toward discussing Monday’s goal, which was to organize travel to Malaysia for the anxious relatives and friends.
马航雇员试图改变话题，转而讨论周一的目标，亦即组织焦虑的亲友前往马来西亚。
The employees laid out several options. For example, they said, the families could go to Kuala Lumpur for one week. Or the families could stay in Beijing for the week to await news before deciding whether to go. The one-week period was not firm and could be extended, they said.
雇员们提出了几个选项。例如，他们表示，乘客的家人可以去吉隆坡待一周，也可以在北京待上一周等待消息，然后再决定是否前往马来西亚。他们表示，一周期限不是定死不变的，也可能会延长。
“I want to know now, how many want to go to Kuala Lumpur now, immediately, and how many want to remain in Beijing?” asked Ignatius Ong Ming Choy, one of the Malaysia Airlines executives.
前述马航高管之一王明财(Ignatius Ong Ming Choy)说，“我现在想知道，有多少人想立即前往吉隆坡，有多少人想留在北京？”
That’s when someone threw the first water bottle in his direction.
就在这时，有人朝他站的方向扔出了第一个水瓶。
But others in the crowd tried to calm the situation. “It won’t do any good,” some people shouted. The airline employees stayed quiet.
不过，人群中的其他人试图让局面平静下来。有人喊道，“这没有任何好处。”马航的雇员则静静地站着。
When they asked for a show of hands to see how many people wanted to go to Malaysia, only a few hands were raised. Most of the people in the room yelled out that they would not leave. At least two more water bottles were thrown.
他们要众人举手示意，看看有多少人愿意去马来西亚，举起来的手屈指可数。房间里的大多数人嚷嚷着他们不会离开。至少又有两个水瓶被扔了出来。
The anger had not abated by the time Chinese officials held a private meeting with the family members a few hours later, in the afternoon. It was the first time Chinese officials had appeared at the Lido Hotel, which since Saturday had been the main gathering place for the passengers’ relatives and friends, most of them Chinese. They had spent hours crammed in a ballroom, waiting for news, and had taken occasional breaks to eat in the lobby restaurant.
几小时之后，中国官员在当日下午单独会见了乘客家属，然而，亲友们的愤怒情绪一如既往。这是中国官员首次出现在丽都酒店，自上周六以来，这里就成了马航为乘客亲友准备的主要聚集地点，这些亲友大多都是中国人。他们一直挤在宴会厅里等待消息，已待了好几个小时，其间偶尔会歇一歇，去饭店大堂的餐厅吃点东西。
Though many in the room were from Beijing, others appeared to have traveled far from home. An elderly man from Jiangsu Province, dressed in a dark corduroy jacket, sat calmly on one side of the ballroom, waiting for his son to join him. A young Malaysia Airlines worker offered him water and asked after his situation.
房间里的许多人都来自北京，但也有一些看上去是从老家远道而来的人。来自江苏省的一名上了年纪的男子身穿深色灯芯绒夹克，平静地坐在宴会厅的一侧，等着儿子回到自己身边。一名年轻的马航员工给他倒了水，询问了他的情况。
The four Chinese officials were from the Foreign Ministry, the Civil Aviation Administration of China, the Beijing municipal government and the Ministry of Transport’s Maritime Search and Rescue Bureau. As the session wore on, the crowd grew more distraught.
四名中国官员分别来自外交部、中国民用航空局，北京市政府和交通运输部海上搜救中心。随着会议的进行，人们变得更加心烦意乱。
The officials began by telling the audience about the continuing rescue efforts. Then they took questions. Their message was twofold: The Chinese government was doing all it could, but Flight MH370 was ultimately someone else’s responsibility.
这些官员先是向听众介绍了持续进行的搜救行动，然后便开始回答问题。他们传达了两层意思：中国政府正在竭尽所能，但从根本上来说，MH370航班是他方的责任。
“Where does primary responsibility lie?” said Liu Zhi, deputy secretary general of the Beijing government. “It is clearly the primary responsibility of Malaysia Airlines.”
“主要责任在谁？”北京市政府副秘书长刘志说，“主要责任显然属于马来西亚航空。”
Later, Mr. Liu told the audience members that they had the “support of the Chinese government.”
随后，刘志告诉会上的听众，他们得到了“中国政府的支持”。
He also asserted that the quality of the Malaysians’ response would certainly be lower if the Chinese government were not involved. “It wouldn’t be the level it is right now,” he said.
他还表示，如果中国政府不介入，马来西亚的应对质量肯定会更低。“不可能是现在这种水平，”他说。
The aviation official said the Chinese government was sending a team to Malaysia on Monday without waiting for the Malaysian government’s invitation.
来自民航局的那名官员则称，中国政府将于周一派一个团队前往马来西亚，不等马来西亚政府邀请。
A personal note was struck when the deputy head of the Foreign Ministry’s consular department said that one of his friends knew somebody on the plane. Speaking in quiet tones, he assured the audience that he sympathized with their anxiety and pain.
外交部领事司副司长说，自己的一个朋友与那架飞机的一名乘客相识，言语之间流露出了个人感情。他用平静的语调向与会者保证，自己理解他们的焦虑和痛苦。
Foreign Minister Wang Yi was making “several calls a day” about the missing aircraft, he said.
他说，外交部部长王毅“一天打好几个电话”，询问关于失联飞机的情况。
By this point, most people in the audience were listening quietly. Several wiped their eyes. There were still flashes of anger, though.
到这时，人群中的大部分人开始安静地倾听。有几个人在擦眼泪。然而，现场依然有愤怒的火花。
“Why don’t you give us some answers?” a middle-aged woman screamed at one point, interrupting the speaker as her friend tried to comfort her. “Do you know how much pain we’re in? Those are our children!”
“你们为什么不给我们答复？”其间有一次，一名中年女子尖叫着打断了发言人的话，她的朋友则试图安慰她。“你知道我们有多痛苦吗？那是我们的孩子！”
Calmed by her friend, she then sat down, still distressed but subdued.
朋友安抚住了她。她坐下了，依然很痛苦，但却克制住了自己的情绪。
“I’m not crying,” she said. “I have no more tears.”
“我没哭，”她说，“我没眼泪了。”
Throughout the day, Malaysia Airlines employees in bright blue vests wandered around the room offering bottled water to those waiting. Along one side of the room, tables had been set up where the Chinese could get help filling out passport, visa and hotel forms. In one corner, someone had put together a makeshift studio for the taking of passport photos.
当天一整天，身着亮蓝色背心的马航员工一直在那个房间里穿梭，为等候在那里的人送上瓶装水。屋子的一面墙边摆好了一些桌子，中国人可以在那里找人帮忙填写护照、签证和酒店房间申请材料。在一个角落里，有人已经搭起了一个临时摄影室，供人们拍摄护照用的照片。