KIEV, Ukraine — Pro-Russian separatist militiamen have seized custody of the bodies of about 200 victims of the Malaysia Airlines passenger jet that was blown out of the sky by a surface-to-air missile, Ukrainian officials said on Sunday, and rebels continued to limit access to the crash site in eastern Ukraine, blocking the work of experts even as hundreds of untrained local volunteers were picking through the wreckage with sticks.
乌克兰基辅 — 乌克兰官员周六说，亲俄罗斯的分裂分子组成的民兵，控制了对马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)客机的约200个遇难者遗体的保管权，该客机是被一枚地对空导弹击落的，同时，叛乱分子在继续限制人们进入乌克兰东部的飞机坠落地点，阻止专家们在那里工作，而上百名未受过训练的当地志愿者正用棍子在残骸中寻找东西。
World leaders have voiced a growing chorus of outrage over the delay in recovering remains of victims, and over the refusal by rebels to cede authority over the disaster site, where Flight 17, a Boeing 777 carrying 298 passengers and crew from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, crashed and burned on Thursday afternoon.
世界各国领导人已经对找回遇难者遗体工作的延迟以及对叛军拒绝交出空难现场管辖权的情况表示了越来越强烈的愤慨，MH17航班在从阿姆斯特丹飞往吉隆坡途中，于上周四下午在那里坠落烧毁，这架波音777型客机上载有298名乘客和机组人员。
Ukrainian emergency responders, working under the watchful eyes of armed rebels, had recovered 196 bodies but were forced to turn them over to the separatists, Andriy Lysenko, a spokesman for the Ukrainian National Security and Defense Council, said at a briefing in Kiev on Sunday. Mr. Lysenko said officials believed that 38 of those bodies were taken to the morgue in Donetsk, a regional capital that is controlled by separatists.
在武装叛乱分子的严密监视下工作的乌克兰紧急救援人员已找到了196具遗体，但他们被迫把遗骸交给了分裂分子，乌克兰国家安全和防务委员会(National Security and Defense Council)发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)周日在基辅的记者会上说。李森科说，官方认为其中有38具遗体被送到了顿涅茨克的停尸房，顿涅茨克是该地区的首府，现在分裂分子控制之下。
Michael Bociurkiw, the leader of an observer mission from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, said that most of the bodies had been placed in three refrigerated railroad cars located in the town of Torez, not far from the crash site. He said that monitors were told that 167 bodies were in the cars, which were locked but under the control of rebels from the self-declared Donetsk People’s Republic, one of the main separatist groups.
欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)派来的观察小组的组长迈克尔·波丘尔科耶夫(Michael Bociurkiw)说，大多数遗体都已被放置在位于距飞机坠落地点不远的托拉兹(Torez)小镇的三节冷藏火车箱中。他说，观察员被告知，车厢中有167具遗体，车厢是锁着的，但被叛军控制着，叛军自称来自顿涅茨克人民共和国，他们是分裂组织中的一支主要力量。
Monitors were permitted to make a brief inspection, Mr. Bociurkiw said, speaking by phone from eastern Ukraine, and the body bags all appeared to have tags on them. “We were escorted to the railway station by heavily armed guards of the Donetsk People’s Republic,” he said. “They are the ones in charge of that area.”
波丘尔科耶夫从乌克兰东部在电话里说，观察员被允许做了一次短暂检查，尸体袋看来都挂上了标记。“我们被顿涅茨克人民共和国全副武装的警卫护送到火车站，”他说。“那个地区在他们的管辖之下。”
The chaos and potential mishandling of evidence at the crash site, near the village of Grabovo, and the uncertainty over when relatives would be able to reclaim the remains of their loved ones, added a frustrating and emotionally wrenching dimension to the looming geopolitical confrontation over Russia’s possible role in the downing of the aircraft.
混乱、对格拉博沃村附近的坠机现场证据可能处理不当的担心，以及亲属什么时候能够认领亲人遗体的不确定性，给因俄罗斯在客机被击落事件中可能起的作用而迫在眉睫的地缘政治冲突增添了一个令人沮丧且伤心的侧面。
Senior United States and Ukrainian officials have said they have conclusive evidence that the plane was shot down by a missile from a Russian antiaircraft system, fired from within rebel controlled territory in eastern Ukraine, where pro-Russian separatists have been battling government forces since April.
美国和乌克兰的高级官员已表示，他们有确凿证据表明，这架飞机被一枚发自俄罗斯防空系统的导弹击落，导弹发射的地点位于乌克兰东部叛军控制的领土内，亲俄分裂分子从4月份以来一直在那里与政府军作战。
Officials said they had photographs and other intelligence showing that three Buk-M1 weapons systems, also known in the west as SA-11 Gadfly, were transported across the border into Russia early Friday morning, within hours after the civilian plane was destroyed. A rocket was missing from the back of one system, officials said.
官员说，他们获得的照片和其他情报显示，三个“山毛榉”(Buk-M1)武器系统，西方称之为SA-11“牛虻”(Gadfly)系统，在周五早上，也就是客机被摧毁的几小时内，被跨越边境运入俄罗斯。官员说，其中一个系统的后部缺失一枚火箭。
Despite the increasing evidence of Russia’s involvement and widespread international outrage, neither the United States nor its allies in Europe have announced any response. Russia has denied any role in the incident, and the Kremlin in recent days has stated repeatedly that the Ukrainian military has antiaircraft capabilities that could have destroyed the plane.
尽管有关俄罗斯涉及此事件的证据越来越多，广泛的国际公愤也在日益增长，但无论美国还是其欧洲盟国都还没有作出任何回应。俄罗斯否认在该事件中起了任何作用，克里姆林宫在最近几天多次表示，乌克兰军方有可能摧毁这架客机的空中防御能力。
The Ukrainian government has said that none of its surface-to-air missiles were in position in the area at the time, and none were fired – a point that was supported by the United States in a written assessment published by the State Department.
乌克兰政府已表示，其地对空导弹在客机被击落时都不在该地区的位置上，也没有任何一枚被发射，这一点在美国国务院发布的一份书面声明中得到支持。
“Pro-Russian separatist fighters have demonstrated proficiency with surface-to-air missile systems and have downed more than a dozen aircraft over the past few months, including two large transport aircraft,” the State Department wrote. “At the time that flight MH17 dropped out of contact, we detected a surface-to-air missile (SAM) launch from a separatist-controlled area in southeastern Ukraine. We believe this missile was an SA-11.”
国务院的声明写道，“亲俄分裂武装分子已经证明自己精通地对空导弹系统，并在过去的几个月里击落了十几架飞机，其中包括两架大型运输机。在MH17航班失去联系的时刻，我们监测到一次来自乌克兰东南部分裂分子控制地区的地对空导弹发射。我们相信这个导弹属于SA-11系统。”
The assessment added, “Ukraine also operates SA-11 systems, but we are confident no Ukrainian air defense systems were within range of the crash. Ukrainian forces have also not fired a single surface-to-air missile during the conflict, despite often complaining about violations of their airspace by Russian military aircraft.”
声明补充道，“乌克兰也有操作SA-11系统的能力，但我们确信乌克兰的空中防御系统都不在飞机坠毁地点的范围内。乌克兰部队在整个冲突中，还没有发射过任何一枚地对空导弹，虽然乌克兰经常抱怨其领空遭到俄罗斯军机的侵犯。”