WASHINGTON — One of the mysteries surrounding Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 concerns the aircraft’s transponder, which apparently stopped functioning about 40 minutes into the flight, leaving ground controllers in the dark about where the plane was.
华盛顿——围绕着马来西亚航空公司370航班的谜团之一，是有关这架飞机的应答器的问题，飞机的应答器看来是在飞行约40分钟之后停止了工作，让地面控制人员无从知晓这架飞机的位置。
A transponder is basically a robotic radio that automatically transmits a response when it receives an inquiry signal. Most airplanes are equipped with them. When an aircraft is under the active supervision of an air traffic control system, it is assigned an identifying code, which the pilot enters into the transponder. The device will then broadcast that code and a bit of additional data, including the aircraft’s current altitude, which civilian ground radar systems generally cannot discern on their own (though military radar often can).
应答器在本质上是一个呆板的无线电设备，在它收到询问信号后，会自动发出应答信号。大多数飞机上都装有应答器。当一架飞机处于某个空中交通控制系统的主动监管下时，飞机会得到一个识别代码，飞行员将这个代码输入应答器中。之后应答器就会将这个代码连同一点额外的数据发送出去，数据包括飞机当前的高度，民用地面雷达系统靠自己的设备一般无法识别飞机的高度（但军用雷达通常可以做到）。
Two kinds of radar are used to keep track of air traffic from the ground. One, called primary radar, sends out radio signals and listens for echoes that bounce back from objects in the sky. It can spot aircraft whether they have transponders or not, but by itself it cannot tell which aircraft it has detected.
从地面跟踪空中交通用的雷达有两种。一种是所谓的初级雷达，这种雷达发出无线电电波，然后等着接听空中物体将电波反弹回来的回波。这种雷达不管飞机是否安装应答器都能发现飞机，但初级雷达本身不能识别发现的是哪架飞机。
The other type, secondary radar, sends signals that are meant to interrogate the transponders, asking electronically, “Who is out there?”
另一种叫次级雷达，这种雷达发出的信号是用来询问应答器的，相当于是发一个“谁在那里？”的电子询问。
Since the secondary radar system knows which way it was facing when it sent out the question, it knows the direction of the aircraft whose transponder replied, “Here I am.” It also knows how long it took for the response to come back, which tells it the distance to the aircraft. Together, the two pieces of information pinpoint the plane’s location. The information is refreshed every few seconds as the radar repeatedly sweeps the sky and interrogates the transponder. Other planes in flight can also receive the transponder signals, using a system meant to protect against midair collisions.
因为次级雷达在发出询问时，知道它向哪个方向发出信号，所以它知道应答器发来“我在这儿”的飞机的方向。雷达也知道从发出信号到收到应答之间的时间，这一信息告诉雷达飞机的距离。这两个信息加在一起可以确定飞机的位置。雷达重复地扫瞄天空，不断向应答器发出询问，飞机位置的信息每隔几秒钟就更新一次。其他在附近飞行的飞机，用一种避免飞机在空中相撞的系统，也会收到应答器发出的信号。
Many air traffic controllers turn off the primary radar on their displays and just use the secondary radar, because the primary radar sometimes shows birds, clouds and other extraneous objects in the sky as well as aircraft.
许多空中交通控制员会关掉他们显示屏上的初级雷达信号，只用次级雷达，因为初级雷达除了显示飞机以外，有时也显示鸟、云以及其他空中物体。
All electronic equipment on an airplane can be turned off by pilots, including the transponder. This is a safety feature, so a device that short-circuits or overheats or otherwise malfunctions can be shut down before it does further harm. But hijackers have been known to turn transponders off. (There is a code that pilots can enter into a transponder, if they get the chance, that indicates the plane has been hijacked.)
飞机上所有的电子设备、包括应答器都可以被飞行员关掉。这是一种安全功能，让飞行员能断掉一个短路、过热或失控的设备，不至于造成进一步的危害。但是，也有过劫机者关掉应答器的先例。（如果飞行员来得及的话，可以把一个代码输入应答器，表示飞机被劫持。）
It is not possible yet to say whether the transponder on Flight 370 was shut off, only that it stopped responding.
目前还不能确定MH370航班上的应答器是不是被关掉了，只知道它停止了应答。