The disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has led to a multinational air and sea search across a vast area of the Indian Ocean. Recently, after weeks of debris sightings that turned out to be irrelevant, sounds have been heard that may be coming from the missing plane, but thus far there has been no confirmation. As the search narrows and the international inquiries into the disappearance continue, Matthew L. Wald, a correspondent for The New York Times, answers some basic questions.
为了寻找消失的马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班客机，多个国家正在印度洋的大片海域展开空中和海上搜索行动。在几周以来发现的“残骸”都被证明与失踪客机无关之后，搜寻人员最近似乎探测到了来自失踪客机的声波，但迄今为止尚未得到证实。随着搜寻范围的缩小，以及针对此事的国际调查的继续进行，在本文中，《纽约时报》记者马修·L·瓦尔德(Matthew L. Wald)就一些基本问题作出回答。
Q. Lately, various search ships have reported hearing “pings,” possibly from the the plane’s cockpit voice and data recorders, known as black boxes. Why did the search ships seem to hear the pings as soon as they started listening? Why didn’t the searchers listen for the pings from the beginning? 
问：最近，多艘搜寻船只报告，探测到了可能来自飞机驾驶舱声音和数据记录器的脉冲信号，该记录器也被称为黑匣子。似乎搜寻船只刚刚开始探测就得到了信号，这是为什么？搜寻人员为什么不一开始就这么做呢？
A. Some of the reports of pings are certain to be wrong, because they are in widely scattered locations and the plane carried only two pingers. The ocean is noisy, and the most likely explanation is random sounds that resemble pings. The Australian reports of several encounters with repeated pings are the most promising so far. But the ships that listen for the pings do so while traveling very slowly, at only a few miles an hour, and the pings are not loud enough to be heard from a great distance, so there is little point in deploying the ships until you have a good idea where to look. The decision to start listening for pings may have been driven partly by desperation: the listening devices were on hand, and the clock was ticking toward the point where the batteries that power the black boxes’ pingers would be exhausted.
答：有些脉冲信号的报告肯定是错误的，因为这些信号的位置分散在各处，而飞机只携带了两个脉冲发射器。海洋里噪音很大，极有可能是与脉冲信号类似的其他声响。澳大利亚报告说几次探测到重复的脉冲信号，这是目前为止最有希望的信号。但探测脉冲信号的舰船需要行驶得非常缓慢，时速只有几英里，此外，由于脉冲信号很弱，距离较远就听不到，因此，除非你知道在哪里探测，否则部署舰船意义不大。之所以决定开始探测脉冲信号，目前的绝望状况可能是一个驱动因素：我们手上有探测设备，而时间在不断流逝，黑匣子脉冲发射器电池耗尽的那一刻逐渐迫近。
Q. The plane disappeared March 8. How long do the batteries last?
问：飞机是3月8日失踪的。那么电池的寿命有多长？
A. The rule is they have to be good for 30 days. In practice, they are built with a little extra energy to make sure they meet or exceed that standard, even on the last day before they are released, so 33 to 38 days’ worth of charge is common, or at most 40 days — meaning that Flight 370’s pinger batteries would be expected to run out no later than April 17, and probably before. The company that builds the pingers offers 90-day batteries as an option, but they cost more and weigh more, neither of which appeals to airlines. After this crash, though, regulators may start requiring 90-day batteries.
答：规定是必须足够使用30天。实际上，生产时通常会增加一点额外的电量，确保能够满足或超过这个标准，即使是激活前的最后一天也要保证如此，所以，电池通常有33到38天的电量，最多可达40天——这意味着，370航班的脉冲发射器的电池至多可以用到4月17日，但也可能在这之前就耗尽。制造脉冲发射器的公司还提供90天电量的电池，但是价格更高、重量更大，这两个因素都不会吸引航空公司。不过，在这次空难之后，监管机构或许会开始要求飞机黑匣子配备90天电量的电池。
Q. What happens when the batteries are drained?
问：电池耗尽之后会怎样？
A. Like a flashlight beam, the pinger’s signal will gradually fade. Finding a black box with a pinger is like finding a mislaid cellphone by dialing its number and listening for the ringtone. Once the battery is exhausted, you can still find it, but the job is more difficult.
答：就像手电筒的光柱一样，脉冲发射器的信号会逐渐减弱。寻找带有发射器的黑匣子，就像你找不到手机时，通过打电话来顺着铃声寻找手机一样。如果电池耗尽，你还是可以找到它，但难度就大了。
Q. How do you look for it then?
问：到那时该怎么找？
A. Primarily with sonar, which is like radar except that it uses sound waves instead of radio waves. The sound is bounced off the ocean floor and read as it returns. The sonar unit is towed behind a ship, and “flown” at an optimum altitude over the bottom, so that the sea floor is in range but the sonar can “see” the widest practical area. Searchers look for straight lines, right angles and other telltale characteristics of manmade objects that can then be investigated up close using submersible vessels. The sonar images are searched by human eyes, but experts are working on software that can scan such images for clues.
答：主要通过声纳，它就像是雷达，但使用的是声波而不是无线电波。声波抵达海底后会返回，并被读取。声纳设备被船拖在后面，漂浮在与水底平行的一个理想高度，从而使海底处在探测范围内，让声纳可以“看到”最广阔的区域。搜索人员要找的是直线、直角和其他人造物体的标志性特征。然后使用潜水器近距离地研究这些物体。人可以用肉眼监控声纳图像，不过专家正在研制可以扫描此类图像从而寻找线索的软件。
Q. Do the black boxes themselves need battery power to retain their data?
问：黑匣子本身需要电池来保存数据吗？
A. No, they have “nonvolatile” storage, in computer chips.
答：不需要。它们带有“非挥发性”内存，在电脑芯片中。
Q. What will happen to the black boxes if they are found?
问：如果发现了黑匣子，接下来将如何处理它们？
A. It will depend to some extent on who recovers them. The Malaysian authorities, who by international treaty are in nominal control of the investigation, would probably have to send them abroad for interpretation. The agency with the most experience in examining Boeing black boxes is the National Transportation Safety Board in Washington, but Australia, which is coordinating the ocean search, has the ability as well. In any case, Boeing and the National Transportation Safety Board would assist with the work.
答：这在一定程度上取决于哪一方得到它们。按照国际法规，名义上是马来西亚当局来负责相关调查，不过它很可能需要把黑匣子送到国外去解读。在研究波音黑匣子上最有经验的机构是位于华盛顿的美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)。不过，协调海上搜索工作的澳大利亚也具备相应的能力。无论怎样，波音和国家运输安全委员会都将协助这项工作。
Q. What happens when artifacts are found?
问：发现人工残骸的话，会做些什么？
A. In water this deep, the most likely approach is with remote-controlled submarines, equipped with searchlights, video cameras and grapples that can pick up objects. 
答：在这样的深海里，最可能采用的方式是遥控潜艇，它会配备探照灯、摄像机和可以抓取物体的抓钩。
Q. Why would the authorities not have found floating debris from the plane after so many weeks of searching?
问：搜索工作过去了好几周了，为什么当局还没有找到来自这架飞机的漂浮残骸？
A. One reason is that much of the searching was done in what the authorities now believe were the wrong places. In the first days, the focus was on the Gulf of Thailand and the South China Sea, close to where the plane was when ground controllers last heard from the pilots or saw signals from its transponders. Military radar data then emerged showing that the plane had turned far off course and flown westward toward the Strait of Malacca and the Andaman Sea, so some searchers were shifted there. Then satellite signals indicated that the plane had kept flying for hours more, hugely expanding the possible search area. By the time the primary focus narrowed again to the southern Indian Ocean, nearly two weeks had gone by, time in which the elements could have scattered or sunk some debris that might have been visible immediately after the crash.
答：一个原因在于，之前的许多搜索工作是在当局如今认定的错误方位进行的。开始的几天，重点放在了泰国湾和南海，也就是接近地面调度员最后听到驾驶员声音或看到应答器信号的地方。后来传出，军用雷达显示，这架飞机进行了远离航道的转弯，朝西飞向马六甲海峡和安达曼海，于是部分搜索人员转向了那里。接下来，卫星信号表明，飞机又继续飞行了多个小时，从而大幅扩展了可能的搜索区域。等到首要关注区域再次缩小，锁定到南印度洋的时候，已经过去了将近两周。在这段时间里，各种因素可能导致在刚刚坠毁后本来可见的部分残骸被打散或淹没。
Q. Will we ever know what happened?
问：将来我们会知道到底发生了什么吗？
A. Some investigators are warning that we may never have a conclusive answer. The cockpit voice recorder, if it is found, may not contain anything helpful: It stores only about two hours of sound, and has probably not preserved anything from the moments early in the flight when the cockpit crew stopped communicating with the ground and the plane went off course. And in two previous crashes in which American investigators believe the cause was murder-suicide, involving SilkAir and EgyptAir flights, the countries whose flag the airplanes carried — Indonesia and Egypt — never accepted those findings.
答：有些调查人员发出警告，我们也许永远都得不到确凿的答案。就算能找到驾驶舱语音记录器，也未必会发现任何有用的信息：记录器里仅储存两个小时左右的语音，很可能没有保存这趟航班早期的任何记录，也就是驾驶舱内人员停止与地面联络及飞机偏离航线的关键时刻的信息。此外，之前有两起坠毁事件，分别涉及胜安航空(SilkAir)和埃及航空(EgyptAir)的航班；美国调查人员认定，这两起事件的原因是有预谋的自杀性坠机，然而飞机所属的国家——印尼和埃及——一直拒绝接受这样的结论。