CANBERRA, Australia — Malaysia Airlines’ missing Flight 370 appears to have been on autopilot as it flew south across the Indian Ocean until running out of fuel, and the likeliest scenario is that the crew was unresponsive, possibly suffering from the effects of oxygen deprivation, Australian officials said Thursday in announcing a new deep-sea search for the aircraft.
澳大利亚堪培拉——澳大利亚官员周四宣布要对失踪的马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airline)370号航班重新进行深海搜寻时称，这架飞机在向南飞往印度洋直到燃料耗尽之前，显然是处于自动驾驶状态，当时最有可能发生的情况是，机组成员很可能由于缺氧而没有做出反应。
A report issued by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, outlining how the new search zone had been chosen, said that the most likely scenario as the aircraft headed south across the Indian Ocean on March 8 was that the crew was suffering from hypoxia or was otherwise unresponsive.
澳大利亚交通安全局(Australian Transport Safety Bureau)发布的一份报告概述了如何选择这一新搜索区的过程，这份报告称，3月8日这架飞机在向南飞越印度洋上空时，最可能的情况是机组成员出现了缺氧，或者已经失去知觉。
Hypoxia occurs when a plane loses air pressure and the pilots, lacking adequate oxygen, become confused and incapable of performing even basic manual tasks.
飞机在失去气压时会出现缺氧，驾驶员在缺氧的情况下陷入昏迷，甚至不能进行基本的手动操作。
Pilots are trained to put on oxygen masks immediately if an aircraft suffers depressurization; their masks have an hour’s air supply, compared with only a few minutes for the passengers. The plane, which left Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, bound for Beijing, with 239 people aboard, made its turn south toward the Indian Ocean about an hour after it stopped responding to air-traffic controllers.
驾驶员接受过训练，一旦飞机出现失压情况，就应当立即带上供氧面罩；他们的面罩可以供氧一个小时，而乘客面罩的供氧时间只有几分钟。这架从马来西亚吉隆坡起飞的飞机上载有239名乘客，飞行目的地是北京，它在与空中交通控制员失去联系一个小时后，掉头向南朝印度洋的方向飞去。
The crew stopped communicating while the aircraft was over the Gulf of Thailand. The plane then did a U-turn, crossed Peninsular Malaysia and then headed northwest across the Strait of Malacca, before later turning south.
机组成员在飞机还在泰国湾上空时停止了与地面的通讯。这架飞机随后大转弯，穿过马来西亚半岛，向西北方向飞过马六甲海峡后掉头往南飞。
Evidence for an unresponsive crew as the plane flew south includes the loss of radio communications, a long period with no maneuvering of the aircraft, a steadily maintained cruise altitude and eventual fuel exhaustion and descent, the report said.
这份报告称，证明飞机在向南飞时机组成员没有做出反应的证据有：无线电通讯停止、长时间没有手动操控飞机、飞机持续保持一定的飞行高度以及最后燃料耗尽并坠落。
“Given these observations, the final stages of the unresponsive crew/hypoxia event type appeared to best fit the available evidence for the final period of MH370’s flight when it was heading in a generally southerly direction,” the document said. The report added that this was an operating assumption for the search and that it was not meant to infringe on Malaysia’s authority as the government responsible for conclusively identifying a cause for the loss of the plane.
这份文件称，“鉴于这些观察结果，最后一段时间发生机组人员失去知觉或是缺氧这种情况，似乎与MH370在大致向南方飞行的最后阶段内可以获得的证据最吻合。”该报告还称，这只是对搜寻工作进行的一次操作假设，无意冒犯马来西亚政府负责为这架飞机失踪做出总结性解释的权威。
There is not a consensus among investigators, even within the Australian government, on the hypoxia or unresponsive crew theory. Other officials, who insisted on anonymity because of the diplomatic sensitivity of the issue with Malaysia and China — most of the flight’s passengers were Chinese — said that some investigators still leaned toward the possibility that one of the pilots deliberately flew the plane to the southern Indian Ocean in a suicide that also killed everyone else on the plane.
甚至连澳大利亚政府内部的调查者也不都认同缺氧或是机组成员失去知觉的理论。还有一些官员说，部分调查者依然倾向于认为，是其中一名驾驶员故意将飞机开向南印度洋，与飞机上所有人同归于尽，由于马来西亚和中国在这个问题上的外交敏感性，这些官员要求不具名。这架飞机上的大部分乘客是中国人。
Advocates of the hypoxia theory argue that pilot suicide cases have tended to involve pilots who crashed their planes suddenly, not after hours of flight. A clinical psychologist advising the investigation has been very skeptical of the suicide theory, saying that it would be highly unusual for a suicidal person to proceed with such a deadly plan over many hours, investigators said.
支持缺氧理论的人认为，在驾驶员自杀案中，驾驶员倾向于会突然让飞机坠毁，而不是在飞行了一个小时后再这么做。调查人员说，一个为调查提供咨询的临床心理医生对自杀理论十分怀疑，他说一个要自杀的人经过很长时间才执行这个致命计划，这种做法十分罕见。
Depressurization of an aircraft can occur from mechanical failure, an attempted hijacking or many other causes. The Australian report did not speculate on why the crew might have succumbed to hypoxia or otherwise become unresponsive.
机械故障、有意劫机或是其他很多原因都会造成飞机失压。这份澳大利亚发布的报告没有对机组成员可能是因为缺氧而没有做出反应的原因做出推测。
At a news conference here Thursday, Martin Dolan, the chief commissioner of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, said that someone on the plane had put it on autopilot, but he declined to speculate on who might have done so and why. “If the autopilot is operational, it’s because it has been switched on,” Mr. Dolan said.
澳大利亚交通安全局局长马丁·多兰(Martin Dolan)周四在这里的一次新闻发布会上说，飞机上有人把飞机设为自动飞行模式，但他没有猜测谁有可能会这么做，以及为什么。多兰说，“如果当时是自动驾驶状态，这是因为有人打开了这个模式。”
Based on recent analysis of data from electronic “handshakes” between the plane and a satellite operated by the company Inmarsat, the Boeing 777-200 appears to have followed a straight track to the south after making a left turn somewhere west of the northern tip of the Indonesian island of Sumatra, Mr. Dolan added.
多兰还说，基于最近一次对这架飞机与Inmarsat公司一个卫星之间进行的电子“握手”数据进行的分析，这架型号为波音777-200的飞机似乎在印度洋苏门答腊岛北部偏西的某个地方向左转之后一直沿直线向南飞。
Warren Truss, the deputy prime minister of Australia and also the minister for infrastructure and regional development, said at the news conference with Mr. Dolan that Australia planned to hire a contractor to scour a rectangular area of ocean floor covering 60,000 square kilometers, or 23,000 square miles. Up to three deep-sea submersibles will be used for the yearlong endeavor, starting in August.
澳大利亚副总理、同时也是负责基建和区域发展事务的部长瓦伦·特拉斯(Warren Truss)在和多兰一道出席新闻发布会，他表示澳方计划雇佣一名承包商，搜索一块面积达6万平方公里的长方形海底区域。从8月开始，各方将投入最多3艘的深海潜航器，展开为期一年的搜索。
By comparison, a fruitless search of ocean floor farther to the northeast by a United States Navy contractor in late April and May, following the detection of acoustic pings initially believed to have been from the aircraft’s so-called black boxes, only covered 860 square kilometers, or 332 square miles.
美国海军承包商于4月末和5月在东北方向的遥远海域展开了搜索，相比之下，那次毫无结果的搜索只覆盖了860平方公里的范围。此次搜索是在探查到音频ping信号后进行的，人们一开始认定，是失踪飞机上所谓的黑匣子发出了ping信号。
That area was chosen based on the supposition that the plane might have been limping along at reduced speed, had burned a great deal of fuel in extreme altitude changes or had been zigzagging somewhere along its course. But the new conclusion, that the aircraft traveled on a straight course under full control of the autopilot, does little to erase the mystery of why the plane ever departed from what was supposed to have been a routine red-eye flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
前述搜索区域的选择，依据的是以下推测，即飞机可能一直在艰难地减速飞行，在飞行高度急剧变化的情况下耗尽了大量燃油，又或是在航行中绕来绕去地飞到了某地。不过，关于飞机是在驾驶员的完全控制下，沿直线飞行的新结论，对解开飞机偏离航线的原因之谜几乎毫无作用，这本应是一次常规的红眼航班，始发地是吉隆坡，目的地为北京。
Angus Houston, the retired head of the Australian military who is overseeing the country’s search, said in an interview earlier this month that he assumed the flight would have been on autopilot even if a conscious pilot had been at the controls. That is because a Boeing 777 is a very difficult plane to fly manually.
澳大利亚军方退役将领、此次搜寻任务的负责人安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)在本月早些时候的一次采访中说，他推测，即使有一名清醒的驾驶员一直控制着飞机，飞行也可能处于自动驾驶状态。这是因为波音777是一种很难用手控操作飞行的机型。
Two deep-sea survey vessels, one contracted by Australia and the other sent by China, have already begun mapping the ocean floor in the new search area, looking for undersea mountains and hills that could wreck a submersible if it is towed into one. Mr. Dolan said that the three-month mapping project was not designed to detect aircraft debris, and that there was a less than 5 percent chance that it would do so.
两艘深海勘探船已经开始绘制新搜索区的海底图，寻找潜航器被引向海底山脉时，可能会和其相撞的那些山脉，两艘勘探船中，有一艘是澳方承包的，另一艘是中方派遣的。多兰说，时长三个月的绘图行动不是为了探查飞机残骸，因为它能查到残骸的几率还不足5%。
The midpoint of the new search area is located 1,800 kilometers, or 1,100 miles, west-northwest of Perth, Australia. The Fugro Equator, the vessel under contract by Australia, is already mapping at the near end of the new search area, about 1,000 miles northwest of Perth.
新搜索区域的中心位于澳大利亚珀斯西北部偏西1800公里处。澳大利亚承包的“辉固赤道号”(Fugro Equator)正在珀斯西北部1000英里处的新搜索区域的近端进行测绘。
The new search area runs 400 miles along the so-called seventh arc of possible locations for the aircraft, based on the seventh and last electronic handshake that it had with the satellite. The area has a width of only 58 miles on the assumption that the plane was on autopilot and quickly stalled and crashed when it ran out of fuel.
新搜索区域长达400英里，处于所谓的第七条弧线上——即飞机可能坠毁的地点，该弧线是根据飞机与卫星第七次也是最后一次电子握手信息确定的。基于飞机处于自动驾驶状态，并在燃料耗尽后立即熄火坠毁的假设，搜索区域只有58英里宽。
If a conscious pilot were at the controls, the aircraft might have glided up to 100 miles. At the news conference Thursday, held in the Blue Room of Australia’s Parliament House, Mr. Truss and Mr. Dolan said that a much wider area of the ocean floor had a low-probability chance of being the final resting place of Flight 370, but that there were no immediate plans to search that wider area.
如果当时由一名意识清醒的飞行员控制，飞机还可以滑翔100英里。周四，在澳大利亚国会大厦蓝厅举行的新闻发布会上，特拉斯和多兰表示，370航班的最终停留处位于更广范围的海底区域的可能性较低，目前没有搜索更广区域的计划。
Aircraft and ships searched the new search area for floating debris on the 21st through 26th days after the plane disappeared, and found nothing.
在370航班失联的第21天至第26天，飞机和船舰在该新搜索区域搜寻漂浮残骸，但一无所获。
Tim Farrar, a satellite communications consultant in Menlo Park, Calif., one of a group of satellite experts who have been independently analyzing clues to Flight 370’s disappearance, said in a telephone interview that assuming the plane was on autopilot simplified the search and reduced the range of places along the seventh arc where the plane might have come to rest. But he cautioned that a conscious pilot still might have been at the controls while leaving the flight on autopilot.
加州门洛帕克的卫星通信顾问蒂姆·法拉尔(Tim Farrar)接受电话采访时，飞机处于自动驾驶状态的假设使搜索工作变简单，缩小了第七条弧线上的搜索范围，飞机可能落在第七条弧线上。有一组卫星专家一直在独立分析370航班失联的线索，法拉尔就是其中之一。但他提醒称，飞机处于自动驾驶状态时，意识清醒的飞行员可能仍在控制飞机。
The report showed many computer simulations, a few of them including flights far to the east or west of the new search zone. Mr. Dolan declined to say what percentage of the computer simulation results showed the aircraft ending up within the new search area.
报告展示了很多电脑模拟结果，其中一些结果显示，飞机落在距离新搜索区域东部或西部很远的地方。多兰拒绝说明，显示飞机最终落在新搜索区域的电脑模拟结果所占的比例。
Mr. Farrar was cautious about whether the new search would find the plane. “It wouldn’t surprise me if there’s a reasonable probability it’s outside the defined search area,” he said. “It’s going to be a difficult search.”
法拉尔对于能否在新搜索区域找到飞机持谨慎态度。“飞机很可能不在确定的搜索范围内，对此，我不会感到意外，”他说。“这将是一项艰难的搜索工作。”