HONG KONG — The Malaysian government released on Sunday the most comprehensive report to date on the circumstances surrounding the disappearance of a Boeing 777 jetliner one year ago, revealing for the first time that the pilot and co-pilot of the plane had displayed no discernible signs of distress before the ill-fated flight.
香港——马来西亚政府周日发布了一份迄今为止最全面的报告，介绍有关一年前波音777喷气式客机失踪的情况。报告中首次透露，在执飞那趟推定失事的航班之前，机长和副驾驶均未表现出可觉察的痛苦迹象。
The information on the psychological state of the crew members was but one aspect of the 584-page report on the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which is presumed to have crashed into the southern Indian Ocean about seven hours after vanishing from air traffic controllers’ screens in the early hours of March 8 last year.
这份长达584页的报告主题是马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的MH370航班失踪一事。有关机组成员心理状况的内容，仅仅是其中的一个方面。该航班被认为在去年3月8日凌晨从空管人员的屏幕上消失大约七小时后，坠入了南印度洋。
The report summarized the maintenance situation of the aircraft and the actions by air traffic controllers, and offered a minute-by-minute account of the events that Saturday morning. No sign of the plane has been found after a year of searching by a host of countries, led by Australia. There have been no definitive clues as to why the plane, with 239 passengers and crew members, suddenly ceased communicating with controllers and made a turn to the southwest on a flight from the Malaysian capital, Kuala Lumpur, to Beijing, causing what is arguably the biggest aviation mystery in history.
报告总结了飞机的维护情况和空管人员采取的行动，并详细叙述了事故发生的那个周六上午，每一分钟里发生的事情。在以澳大利亚为首的多个国家进行了一年的搜寻后，依然没有发现那架飞机的迹象。这架载有239名乘客和机组成员的飞机，缘何在从马来西亚首都吉隆坡飞往北京时，突然停止与控制人员联络，并转向西南方向，也没有确凿的线索。这堪称是航空史上最大的谜团。
The search effort in the first month was likely made even more difficult by the fact that a battery on one of the plane’s emergency locator beacons had expired more than a year earlier, the report said records showed. Four ships continue to scour a patch of ocean the size of West Virginia, using special sonar in an effort to locate the aircraft where experts estimate it probably ran out of fuel and crashed into the ocean.
报告称，记录显示，机上其中一台定位信标的电池在一年多以前就没电了，这一事实可能给第一个月的搜寻行动造成了更多困难。四艘船只依然在一片面积与西弗吉尼亚州相当的海面上，用特殊声呐搜寻，试图确定飞机的位置。专家估计，飞机可能就是在那里耗尽燃料后坠入海中的。
“Together with our international partners, we have followed the little evidence that exists. Malaysia remains committed to the search, and hopeful that MH370 will be found,” Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia said in a statement on Sunday, referring to the flight number of the missing plane.
“我们与国际伙伴一道，追查了仅存的证据。马来西亚依然致力于搜寻工作，并满怀希望地认为MH370会被找到，”马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)在周日发表的一份声明中说。他用航班号来指代失踪的飞机。
In the past year, many investigators have pointed to the possibility that the pilot, Zaharie Ahmad Shah; the co-pilot, Fariq Abdul Hamid; or someone else deliberately flew the plane to its doom.
过去一年里，许多调查人员指称，有可能是机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)、副驾驶法里克·阿卜杜勒·哈米德(Fariq Abdul Hamid)或其他人，故意让飞机跌入厄运。
Mr. Zaharie, who was 52 at the time of the disappearance, had no life insurance policy, and neither he nor the co-pilot had shown signs of “social isolation,” drug or alcohol abuse, or any other behavioral changes before the flight, the report said. Closed-circuit television cameras at airport security checkpoints did not spot any changes in the mannerisms of Mr. Zaharie or the co-pilot compared with previous days.
报告称，飞机失踪时扎哈里52岁，没有人寿保险单，并且在执飞前，他和副驾驶也均未表现出“社交孤立”、吸毒或酗酒，或其他行为变化的迹象。机场安检处的闭路电视摄像头，也未发现扎哈里或副驾驶的举止与之前几天相比有何变化。
“The captain’s ability to handle stress at work and home was good,” the report, which drew on police investigations, said of Mr. Zaharie. “There was no known history of apathy, anxiety or irritability. There were no significant changes in his life style, interpersonal conflict, or family stresses.”
“机长有良好的应对工作和家庭压力的能力，”报告形容扎哈里时写道。“没有任何已知的冷漠、焦虑或易怒的历史。他的生活方式、人际冲突、家庭压力方面都没有发生明显的改变。”这份报告编撰时参考了警方的调查。
Mr. Fariq, who was 26, did have a life insurance policy, though the report did not say whether this was unusual. He was promoted to first officer, though still under training, on the 777 the previous November, and this flight was to have been his last before he became a fully qualified first officer. The report did not go into detail on his psychological profile.
报告称，其时26岁的法里克的确有一份人寿保单，但报告并未评价这一点是否反常。他在前年11月被升为777客机的副驾驶，但仍在接受培训。失踪航班本应是他在成为一名完全合格的副驾驶前，执飞的最后一趟航班。报告未详细介绍他的心理状况。
What investigators refer to as “the rogue pilot theory” has emerged as the most plausible explanation among many for the plane’s disappearance. But the investigators have cautioned that the only evidence is circumstantial and that the theory lacks supporting factors, like a motive. Others still suspect that there must have been some other cause, with possibilities including a mechanical failure, a fire, hijacking or sabotage.
在关于飞机失踪的众多解释中，调查人员称为“飞行员行为失常理论”的说法，似乎是最合理的一个。然而，调查人员也提醒人们，仅有的证据来源于间接推测，而且这个理论还缺乏支持性因素，比如动机。其他一些人仍然怀疑，肯定还有别的原因，包括机械故障、起火、劫机、破坏等可能性。
The maintenance information revealed in the report said that the crew’s emergency oxygen supply had been topped up on March 7, just before the flight’s departure.
报告中透露的维护信息称，3月7日，就在航班起飞前，机组人员的应急供氧设备刚被装满。
Relatives of the passengers hunger for answers. Some 153 of the 227 passengers were Chinese, and on Sunday, family members and friends of the flight’s Chinese passengers gathered at the Lama Temple in central Beijing to reassert their demands for answers. They have been frustrated by the Malaysian government’s handling of the case.
乘客亲属十分渴望答案。227名乘客中有153人是中国人。周日，中国乘客的家人和朋友在位于北京市中心的雍和宫聚集，重申了他们想得到答案的诉求。马来西亚政府对这起事件的处理让他们感到沮丧。
The report released Sunday, required under international regulations, revealed that the battery for the underwater locator beacon on the plane’s data recorder had expired in December 2012, with no records showing that it had been replaced. A source close to the Malaysian government said that the airline had changed the battery but that the written records had not been updated.
周日的报告是根据国际规章的要求发布的。报告表明，飞机数据记录仪上水下定位信标的电池，已于2012年12月用尽，并无记录显示电池曾被更换。与马来西亚政府关系密切的一名消息人士表示，航空公司更换了电池，但是相关书面记录却未更新。
A defective beacon would have added to the extraordinary challenges faced by search teams in the aftermath of the plane’s disappearance, as they listened in vain for signals from the devices in the deep waters far off the Australian coast. The report said that the battery’s expiration meant that there was no guarantee that the data recorder beacon would have sent signals out for the full 30 days it was designed to transmit, if at all. The beacon for the cockpit voice recorder had been replaced and was due to expire in June of last year.
飞机失踪后，信标存在故障将会加大搜索队面临的异乎寻常的挑战。搜索人员在远离澳大利亚海岸的深水中，试图监听这些设备传出的信号，但却无功而返。报告称，电池的失效意味着，不能保证数据记录仪的信标曾经按照最初的设计，发出信号达整整30天，甚至不能确定它发出过信号。驾驶舱语音记录仪的信标已经更换，失效日期是去年6月。
Malaysia came under withering criticism after the plane disappeared because the government was seen as withholding key information that showed the aircraft probably turned around and flew south and west across Peninsular Malaysia. For days, Malaysia directed rescue ships and planes northward and eastward to the South China Sea, around the area where the plane was last seen by air traffic controllers, who rely on identifying signals emitted from the aircraft’s transponders. That transponder information disappeared from screens at 1:21 a.m. on March 8, 2014.
飞机失踪后，马来西亚受到了猛烈抨击。公众认为，政府隐瞒了显示飞机可能掉头，并向南和向西飞越马来半岛的关键信息。连续数天，马来西亚一直命令救援船和飞机向北部和东部，到南海进行搜救。空管人员最后一次看到飞机就在那个区域附近，他们的依据是飞机应答器发射的识别信号。2014年3月8日凌晨1点21分，应答器的信息从屏幕上消失。
The report was unsparing in its clinical condemnation of the extremely slow response of the Malaysian authorities to the airplane’s disappearance, noting that it took more than five hours from the plane’s last transmission for the government to send an alert that the plane had disappeared and more than 10 hours from the last transmission for the first search-and-rescue plane to take off.
报告中就马来西亚官方对飞机失踪极其缓慢的应对，毫不留情地提出了严厉谴责，指出距离飞机最后一次数据传输五个多小时后，政府才发出飞机失联的警告，而且在距离最后一次数据传输超过10个小时后，第一架搜救机才起飞。