WASHINGTON — From the start, the telephone call did not go well. Dispensing with pleasantries, President Vladimir V. Putin launched into an edgy and long-winded complaint about the new American sanctions imposed on Russia the day before.
华盛顿——两人的通话从一开始起就不太融洽。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)略过寒暄，直接对美国在前一天针对俄罗斯实施的新制裁，提出了尖锐而冗长的的指责。
President Obama, on the phone from the Oval Office on Thursday morning, responded that Russia was arming rebels in Ukraine — citing among other things the antiaircraft weapons that the United States believed they had been sent. “This is not something we’re making up,” Mr. Obama said, according to an American official.
那是周四的早上，在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)接电话的美国总统奥巴马回应说，俄罗斯正在武装乌克兰的叛军——他给出了若干项理由，其中包括美方确信俄罗斯输送了防空武器。一名美国官员透露，奥巴马说，“这可不是我们杜撰出来的。”
Then, more than halfway through the tense, hourlong call, Mr. Putin noted, almost in passing, that he had received a report of an aircraft going down in Ukraine.
然后，在长达一个小时的紧张通话进行到超过一半时，普京几乎是随口提到，他已经接到了一架飞机在乌克兰坠毁的消息。
Mr. Putin was vague about the details, and the conversation moved on.
普京措辞含糊，没有给出坠机的细节，对话继续推进了下去。
But in that instant, the monthslong proxy war between East and West took a devastating turn, one that would shift the ground geopolitically amid the charred wreckage and broken bodies in a Ukrainian wheat field.
那一刻，焦黑的残骸和破碎的尸体铺满了乌克兰的一片麦田。也是在那一刻，乌克兰东部与西部之间长达数月的冲突发生了灾难性的转折，令当地的地缘政治局势发生了转变。
The downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 rippled across multiple continents — from Amsterdam, where friends and family had just seen off their loved ones, to the distant shores of Asia and Australia that had been waiting for 298 passengers and crew who would never show up.
马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的MH17航班坠毁事件掀起的波澜触及了数个大洲——从送别了至爱亲朋的阿姆斯特丹，一直延伸到亚洲和澳大利亚的遥远海岸。人们还在那里等待着298名乘客及机组人员，但他们再也无法现身了。
The tragedy reached as far as a college in Bloomington, Ind., shocked to find one of its doctoral students among the dead.
悲剧甚至触及到了更远的地方——印地安那州布卢明顿的一所学院震惊地发现，那里的一名博士生也遇难了。
It was a day of confusion and anger, of grief and disbelief, of charges and countercharges, of politics and war. It was a day that brought home in vivid relief the consequences of a struggle in a torn society that had seemed far removed for many. And it was a day that was a long time in the making.
这是令人困扰和愤怒的一天，是悲痛欲绝和难以置信的一天，也是相互指责和相互驳斥的一天，更是政治博弈和战场角力的一天。这一天让人们清晰地认识到，一个撕裂的社会里发生的纷争，会产生怎样的后果，尽管对许多人来说那里似乎十分遥远。而这一天的到来，已经酝酿多时。
Cor Schilder had been looking forward to his vacation with his girlfriend. Two months ago, he posted pictures of an Indonesian resort on his Facebook page. “We will stay with a private pool with rose petals floating in it,” he wrote in Dutch on May 17. “We won’t leave before all those petals have withered away.”
科尔·席尔德(Cor Schilder)一直盼望着能与女友一起度假。两个月前，他就在自己的Facebook页面贴出了印度尼西亚一个度假胜地的照片。“我们会待在一个漂着玫瑰花瓣的私家泳池里，”他在5月17日用荷兰语写道。“等到花瓣全都枯萎，我们才会离开。”
A florist and amateur musician who played drums in a band called Vast Countenance, Mr. Schilder, 33, and his girlfriend, Neeltje Tol, 30, closed up their Amsterdam flower shop on Wednesday, leaving a sign saying that they would reopen on Aug. 4. As they passed through customs at Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport the next day, Mr. Schilder kept updating his Facebook page.
今年33岁的席尔德是一名花商，也是一个业余乐手，为名为“巨大面容”(Vast Countenance)的乐队打鼓。他和女友、30岁的尼尔捷·托尔(Neeltje Tol)周三关闭了他们在阿姆斯特丹的花店，并留下了一则告示，说花店将于8月4日重新开展过。第二天，当他们在阿姆斯特丹史基浦机场(Schiphol Airport)过关时，席尔德还在更新他的Facebook页面。
“Mind your step, mind your step,” he wrote two hours before the flight, echoing the automated warning message of the airport’s moving-walkway system.
飞机起飞两小时前，他照抄机场传送带上的自动警示讯息写道，“注意脚下、注意脚下。”
Before boarding, he posted a picture of the plane, exactly the same model owned by the same airline as one that vanished mysteriously in March en route to China. “In case it goes missing,” he wrote wryly, “this is what it looks like.”
登机之前，他张贴了一张飞机的照片。这架飞机与今年3月在飞往中国途中神秘消失的那一架型号相同，而且属于同一家航空公司。他嘲讽地写道，“万一这架也失踪的话，这架飞机是这样的。”
That may have been less amusing for a couple who were also passengers, Maree Rizk and her husband, Albert, who lost relatives aboard the never-found Malaysia Airlines Flight 370. Ms. Rizk’s stepmother’s brother and his wife were among those lost in March. The couple was returning home to Australia after a four-week vacation in Europe. “We thought it was unusual they would fly Malaysia because that earlier flight had gone down,” said Phil Lithgow, a friend.
对于另一对同为乘客的夫妇而言，也许没那么好笑，他们是马蕾·里茨克(Maree Rizk)和她的丈夫阿尔伯特(Albert)。里茨克夫妇有亲戚乘坐了马来西亚航空公司那架下落不明的MH370客机。马蕾·里茨克继母的一个兄弟和他的妻子，就随着3月坠毁的客机不见了踪迹。里茨克夫妇刚在欧洲度过四周的假期，准备返回澳大利亚的家中。他们的朋友菲尔·利思戈(Phil Lithgow)说，“因为早前坠机的事，我们都觉得他们乘坐马航飞机的做法有些不同寻常。”
The flight took off from Amsterdam and headed east along a flight plan filed before departure. As it crossed over Ukraine, it cruised at an altitude of 33,000 feet, making sure to stay above a new minimum of 32,000 feet set just three days earlier so as to avoid any fighting on the ground or in the air. Some airlines had stopped traversing Ukraine altogether because of its violent insurgency in the east, but most had not.
此次航班从阿姆斯特丹起飞，按照出发前预定的航线向东飞行。飞机飞越乌克兰上空时，是在3.3万英尺（约合9100米）的高度巡航，确保巡航高度维持在3.2万英尺以上。这是三天前刚刚设定的下限，目的是避免飞机遭遇地面和空中的任何战斗。由于乌克兰东部发生暴力叛乱，某些航空公司已全面要求旗下航线停止飞越乌克兰上空，不过大部分航空公司并没有这么做。
Until that week, pro-Russian separatists fighting in the east had been known to possess shoulder-fired, heat-seeking missiles known as Manpads, weapons that can typically fire to a maximum altitude of roughly 12,000 feet. But in the days before the doomed Malaysia Airlines flight, combatants had made clear they now had access to a weapon of a different magnitude, a radar-guided SA-11 that can deliver warheads at three times the speed of sound to a target as high as 70,000 feet.
据外界了解，直到上周，在东部作战的亲俄分裂分子还拥有肩射式的热追踪导弹，也就是所谓的便携式防空导弹(Manpads)，这种武器的常规射程约为1.2万英尺（约合3600米）。然而，就在马航客机发生惨剧的前几天，作战人员明确表示，他们现在取得了一种不同量级的武器，那就是雷达制导的SA–11导弹。这种导弹能携带弹头，以三倍于音速的速度，攻击远在7万英尺高空的目标。
On Monday, such a missile had brought down a Ukrainian Antonov-26 military transport plane flying at 21,000 feet, a feat requiring expertise and training that only a military could provide. American intelligence agencies believe the missile came from the Russian side of the border, which Moscow denied. Separatists said they brought the plane down themselves.
周一，一枚这样的导弹已经击落了一架在2.1万英尺飞行的乌克兰安东诺夫–26(Antonov–26)型军用运输机，只有军队才有能力提供此类壮举所需的专业技术和训练。美国情报机构确信，这枚导弹来自边境线另一侧的俄罗斯，莫斯科对此予以否认。分裂分子表示，他们是凭自己的力量把那架飞机打下来的。
Either way, Ukraine that same day set the 32,000-foot minimum for civilian airliners. Russia followed suit two days later. But no one banned passenger jets from the area, despite the obvious change in the threat.
不管怎样，乌克兰当天将民航飞机的最低飞行高度设为32000英尺。两天之后，俄罗斯也采取了相同的举措。但两国都没有禁止客机进入相关区域，尽管飞行安全受到的威胁明显出现了变化。
Dramatic Shift in Battle
战局的戏剧性转变
The missile strike that brought down the Malaysia flight was in many respects a result of a dramatic change in the battlefields of eastern Ukraine. After declaring unilateral cease-fires that failed to lead to meaningful negotiations, Ukraine’s president, Petro O. Poroshenko, let the latest cease-fire lapse and ordered his military to resume efforts to crush the insurrection by force.
从很多方面来说，发射导弹击落马航班机的动作，是由乌克兰东部战场上的戏剧性转变导致的。乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)宣布单方面停火的举动，没能促使双方开展实质性的谈判。之后，波罗申科在最近的停火承诺到期后，命令军队恢复战斗，用武力镇压叛乱。
After the military plane was shot down on Monday, fighting escalated. On Tuesday, a blast destroyed a residential building in Snizhne, a town 12 miles from the Russian border controlled by rebels. Ukraine said a Russian plane had carried out the attack; the rebels blamed the Ukrainian military. Whoever was responsible, a new air war was clearly underway. On Wednesday evening, Ukraine said Russia had sent a MIG-29 fighter jet across the border to engage with Ukrainian Su-25s. In the ensuing dogfight, one Su-25 was shot down, while another was damaged but escaped.
周一，在军用飞机被击落后，战斗进一步升级。周二，爆炸摧毁了斯尼日内的一栋住宅楼。斯尼日内是一个距离俄罗斯边境12英里（约合19公里）的小城，俄罗斯边境由叛乱分子控制。乌克兰表示，袭击是由一架俄罗斯飞机发动的；而叛乱分子则归咎于乌克兰军队。无论是谁发动的袭击，很明显，新的空战已经拉开序幕。周三晚间，乌克兰方面称，俄罗斯派遣一架米格–29 (MIG–29)战斗机飞越边境，与乌克兰的苏–25 (Su–25)飞机交战。在接下来的近距离激战中，一架苏–25被击落，另一架虽然受损，但最终逃脱。
New Shock in Malaysia
马来西亚再受冲击
The shock was felt nearly as powerfully in Kuala Lumpur, where the Malaysian government and its people remain deeply traumatized from the March episode. Prime Minister Najib Razak was at his personal residence when he was notified that Flight 17 had apparently gone down. He rushed to the Malaysia Airlines emergency response center at Kuala Lumpur’s airport and ordered his defense minister, foreign minister, aviation director and airline executives to meet him there.
吉隆坡受到的冲击同样非常强烈。马来西亚政府及该国民众还没有从今年3月的飞机失踪事件带来的巨大痛苦中恢复过来。马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)得知MH17似乎被击落的消息时正在自己的寓所中。他匆忙赶到吉隆坡机场的马航应急中心，并命令国防部长、外交部长、航空主管，以及这家航空公司的高管前往应急中心与他会面。
“People were incredulous, but people weren’t emotional,” said a Malaysian official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to comment on the government’s response. “You looked at the faces around the room, and everyone had been battle-scarred from MH-370.”
“人们都觉得难以置信，但并没有非常激动，”一名马来西亚官员透露。“看看房间里的每一张面孔，他们都经历过MH370事件，受到了创伤。”由于没有获得评论政府反应的授权，这名官员要求匿名。
Mr. Putin was also in the air above Eastern Europe that afternoon, as he was returning from a six-day tour of Latin America aboard his presidential Airbus, referred to as Aircraft No. 1 by the media. The Russian jet apparently passed near the doomed Malaysian plane, both flying in roughly the same airspace over Warsaw at 33,000 feet some 37 minutes apart, according to an Interfax report. He got on the telephone with Mr. Obama shortly after landing.
那天下午，普京结束了对拉丁美洲为期六天的访问，乘坐总统专机返回俄罗斯，那天下午正在东欧上空。媒体将他的空中客车(Airbus)飞机称为“一号飞机”(Aircraft No. 1)。俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道，该飞机似乎经过了临近马航飞机失事地点的空域，两架飞机都曾在华沙上空3.3万英尺高度的同一空域飞行，前后相差37分钟。普京在飞机着陆后不久就与奥巴马进行通话。
As soon as it became clear that the downed plane was not a military craft but a civilian passenger plane, Russian news media shifted their narrative from a separatist attack to a variety of other explanations, including the possibility that Ukraine’s military had shot it down. The coincidental proximity of Mr. Putin’s plane even led to conspiracy theories that whoever destroyed the Malaysia jet was actually trying to target the Russian president. Rossiya 24, the state-run cable network, played past clips of Ukrainian public figures saying they wished Mr. Putin dead and then interviewed supposed experts about how the two planes might have been confused.
在确认被击落的飞机不是军用飞机而是一架民航客机时，俄罗斯新闻媒体的报道口径从分裂分子的攻击，转变成了其他各种解读，比如可能是乌克兰军方击落了飞机。由于普京乘坐的飞机碰巧接近事发空域，一些人甚至提出了阴谋论，称击落马航飞机的人实际上是在尝试攻击俄罗斯总统。官方有线新闻台俄罗斯24电视台(Rossiya 24)播放了过去的一些录像片段。录像中显示，乌克兰的公众人物说他们希望普京死掉。该电视台还就两架飞机可能被混淆的问题，采访了所谓的专家。
Mr. Putin released a statement 40 minutes after midnight, blaming Ukraine. “Certainly,” he said, “the government over whose territory it occurred is responsible for this terrible tragedy.”
普京在0点40分发布声明指责乌克兰。“可以肯定的是，”他说。“事件发生的地点属于哪个政府，哪个政府就应该为这场可怕的悲剧负责。”