WASHINGTON — As an armada of ships, planes and helicopters combed the waters south of Vietnam on Monday for any sign of a missing Malaysian airliner, aviation safety experts said the discovery that two passengers aboard the plane were traveling on stolen passports has revealed a major gap in airline security procedures developed since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
华盛顿——本周一，由舰艇、飞机和直升机组成的庞大队伍仔细搜索着越南以南海域，以寻找马航失联客机，与此同时，航空安全专家表示，相关方面发现有两名旅客用被盗护照登机，此事表明，自2011年9月11日袭击事件发生后建立起来的航空安全程序存在一个重大的漏洞。
Interpol created a database of stolen and lost passports in 2002 that has grown to more than 40 million documents available for governments to screen for terrorists, smugglers or swindlers who travel the world illicitly. But according to the international law enforcement agency, only three countries — the United States, Britain and the United Arab Emirates — systematically screen travelers against the agency’s database of stolen passports.
国际刑警组织在2002年创建了失窃及遗失护照数据库，这座数据库不断扩大，至今已存储了超过4000万份文件，可供各国政府筛查在全球非法流窜的恐怖分子、走私者或诈骗者。不过，根据国际刑警组织的消息，只有三个国家在利用国际刑警组织的被盗护照数据库系统性地筛查旅客，它们是美国、英国和阿拉伯联合酋长国。
The two men with stolen passports who boarded the missing Malaysia Airlines flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing over the weekend did not have their passports screened. And last year, Interpol said, passengers around the world were able to board planes more than a billion times without having their passports checked against the database.
马航失联班机是于上周六从马来西亚吉隆坡飞往北京的，使用被盗护照登机的两名男子并没有遭遇护照筛查。国际刑警组织表示，去年，全球有逾10亿人次的旅客在护照没有与国际刑警组织数据库进行比对的情况下登机。
“If Malaysia Airlines and all airlines worldwide were able to check the passport details of prospective passengers against Interpol’s database, then we would not have to speculate whether stolen passports were used by terrorists to board MH 370,” Ronald K. Noble, Interpol’s secretary general, said in a statement on Sunday, referring to the Malaysia Airlines flight. “We would know that stolen passports were not used by any of the passengers to board that flight.”
国际刑警组织总干事理查德·K·诺布尔(Ronald K. Noble)在周日发表的一则声明中说，“如果马航和全球其他航空公司都能把出发旅客的护照细节和国际刑警组织的数据库进行比对，我们现在就不需要揣测，利用被盗护照登上MH370班机的是不是恐怖分子。我们就能够确认，没有任何旅客用被盗护照登上了班机。”他指的是失联的马航班机。
Law enforcement and counterterrorism officials said Monday that the stolen passports might not have had anything to do with what happened to the jet. Still, they said, the episode had cast a spotlight on a flaw in security defenses built over the past decade to counter illicit travel and illegal trafficking of people, drugs and other contraband.
执法和反恐官员于周一表示，被盗护照也许和飞机的遭遇没有丝毫关系。不过，他们表示，此次事件突显过去十年构建的安全防御系统存在缺陷，该系统的目的是防范偷渡、贩卖人口、毒品走私和其他违法交易。
Renewed focus on the critical database, which has apparently gone underutilized, came on a day when the search for the missing jetliner and its 239 passengers and crew members was set back by a number of false leads that seemed to underline how little investigators knew about the location of the plane, which vanished on Saturday. Malaysian officials said late on Monday that they were expanding the search to a much wider area, including waters north of the Indonesian island of Sumatra, hundreds of miles from the aircraft’s last reported position.
国际刑警组织的数据库显然没有得到充分利用，就在人们重新聚焦这个关键数据库的同一天，对失联航班及机上239名乘客与机组人员的搜索正因大量虚假线索而受阻，这些虚假线索似乎突显了调查人员对上周六消失的飞机的下落一无所知。马来西亚官员在周一晚间表示，他们正在大幅度扩大搜索范围，包括印尼苏门答腊岛以北水域，该地距失联航班最后报告的位置有数百英里。
One of the many vexing mysteries of the plane’s disappearance was the hunt for the true identity of the two passengers who used passports stolen from European tourists in Thailand in the past two years. A senior American law enforcement official said Sunday that Thai officials were investigating a so-called passport ring operating on the resort island of Phuket, where both passports were stolen and where, he noted, false documents were routinely used by drug smugglers.
飞机消失的诸多恼人谜题之一是设法确认持被盗护照登机的两名旅客的真实身份，这两本护照是过去两年间被盗的，原主是两名在泰国旅游的欧洲游客。一名美国高级执法官员于周日表示，泰国官员正在调查在旅游胜地普吉岛活动的一个所谓的护照盗窃团伙。他指出，前述两本护照都是在普吉岛被盗的，毒贩常常会在那里使用假证件。
Governments around the world have spent vast sums in the past decade to apply watermarks in passport books and encrypt authenticating information in the documents, all in efforts to combat increasingly sophisticated passport theft rings and forgers, the authorities said Monday. But the great majority of Interpol’s member nations still have not integrated the agency’s database of stolen passports beyond a central national office in each country — an office that can check a passport upon specific request or in an emergency, as member nations did after Malaysia Airlines published the passenger manifest of Flight MH370.
有关当局周一表示，过去十年里，全球各国的政府斥巨资在护照上印制了水印，还在证件上加入了密码验证信息，所有这些措施都是为了对抗越来越老练的护照盗窃团伙和伪造者。不过，国际刑警组织的绝大部分成员国依然没有和该组织的被盗护照数据库联网，这些成员国只是设立了一个与此相关的中央办公室——这个办公室可以根据具体要求，或者在紧急情况下核查护照。马航公布MH730航班的旅客名单后，国际刑警组织各成员国便采取了这种做法。
Some authorities said on Monday that a perception persists among some aviation officials that integrating Interpol’s database of stolen passports would be a costly, cumbersome process, a characterization that Interpol officials disputed. “It’s a nominal cost,” said one Interpol official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of agency protocol. “We’re not talking millions here.”
一些官方机构周一表示，一些航空官员坚持认为，接入国际刑警组织的失窃护照数据库会是一项耗资巨大且效率低下的过程。国际刑警组织的官员对这样的描述进行了反驳。“涉及的成本不过是象征性的，”国际刑警组织的一名官员称，“我们说的可不是要花几百万的事情。”因为该机构的相关规定，这名官员要求匿名。
The official said Interpol was also willing to offer technical assistance to any member country that requested it.
这名官员表示，国际刑警组织也愿意为提出请求的成员国提供技术援助。
“Whether or not this eventually involves terrorism, this incident has certainly brought to light an area of potential vulnerability on a global scale,” said Mark Dombroff, a former Justice Department official who is now a partner specializing in aviation issues in the Washington office of the law firm McKenna Long & Aldridge.
“不管最终是否涉及恐怖主义，这起事件的确揭示了全球范围内一个潜在的危险区域，”前美国司法部(Justice Department)官员马克·多姆布罗夫(Mark Dombroff)说。他现在是麦肯朗律师事务所(McKenna Long & Aldridge)华盛顿办事处的合伙人，专门研究航空问题。
American investigators have repeatedly warned about the inability or unwillingness of foreign partners to address the use of fraudulent travel documents.
美国调查人员已多次就外国合作伙伴无力或不愿应对虚假旅行证件的事情发出警告。
“In many countries, fraudulent travel documents, including fraudulent passports and visas, are easy to obtain, and could thereby be used by people who want to travel under a false identity,” said a June 2011 report by the Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress.
“在很多国家，包括假护照和假签证在内的虚假旅行证件很容易获取，那些想用虚假身份旅行的人便可以使用这些证件，”国会下属的调查机构政府问责局(Government Accountability Office)在2011年6月的一份报告中写道。
The report noted that the problem is common in Kenya, “where individuals with a similar appearance to a Somali-American with a legitimate travel document will fraudulently use this travel document for illicit travel.”
该报告指出，这个问题在肯尼亚很普遍，“在那里，长得像某个持有合法旅行证件的索马里裔美国人的个人可以欺骗性地使用这种旅行证件，非法出行。”
In addition, the report said, some countries’ failure to consistently report lost or stolen travel documents or access Interpol’s database of purloined passports “can facilitate the use of legitimate passports by impostors.”
此外，该报告还称，一些国家没有坚持通报遗失或被盗的旅行证件，或是没有接入国际刑警组织的失窃护照数据库，这就“为冒名顶替者使用合法护照提供了便利”。