EINDHOVEN AIR BASE, the Netherlands — A week ago, they had been packing their bags, preparing for conferences, family visits and vacations. Now, they were returning to the Netherlands in coffins, victims of the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, shot out of the skies above eastern Ukraine.
荷兰埃因霍恩空军基地——一周前，他们收拾行囊，准备参加研讨会、探亲和度假。现在，他们躺在灵柩中回到了荷兰，他们是在乌克兰东部上空被击落的马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)MH17航班的罹难者。
At 3:48 p.m. on Wednesday, a military cargo plane belonging to the Australian Air Force touched down at the Eindhoven Air Base, home to the Royal Netherlands Air Force, in the southern Netherlands. On board were 24 coffins. Soon afterward, a second, smaller plane landed, its thundering propellers piercing the silence. It was carrying 16 coffins.
周三下午3:48，一架隶属澳大利亚空军(Australian Air Force)的军用运输机，在位于荷兰南部的埃因霍恩空军基地降落，这里是荷兰皇家空军(Royal Netherlands Air Force)的驻扎地。机上载有24具棺木。不久，另一架较小的飞机降落，螺旋桨的轰鸣声撕破了这里的宁静。机上载有16具棺木。
Along the tarmac, flags representing the 17 nationalities of the 298 victims of the crash stood at half-staff, their lines clinging to the flagpoles in the warm summer wind.
在停机坪边，298名死难者所属的17个国家的国旗降下了半旗，在夏日的暖风中，绳索紧贴着旗杆。
Relatives, friends and government representatives waited as the planes taxied to a stop. Among those gathered were King Willem-Alexander and Queen Máxima.
亲属、朋友和政府代表在一旁等候飞机缓缓滑行至停止。这其中包括威廉-亚历山大(Willem-Alexander)国王和马克西玛王后(Queen Máxima)。
After the propeller plane switched off its engines, a heavy silence filled the air. Columns of military representatives appeared from the western side of the airfield, marching in formation toward the planes. Forty black, identical hearses followed them.
螺旋桨飞机关闭引擎后，整个空间陷入一片沉重的寂静。军方代表列队从机场西侧向飞机齐步行进。他们身后跟随着40辆统一型号的黑色灵车。
There were no speeches or obvious tears, but a lone soldier played the “Last Post” on his trumpet, a tradition in the Netherlands during the annual remembrance for those who died in the Second World War.
没有演讲，没有明显的眼泪，只有一名士兵用小号吹响《最后一岗》(Last Post)，这是荷兰每年举行第二次世界大战死难者纪念活动时的传统曲目。
One minute of silence followed, on the airfield and in the rest of the Netherlands. A public television station, NOS, reported that church bells had rung across the country right after the planes landed. Truckers, many of whom had tied black ribbons to their vehicles, stopped on the sides of highways. In shops and coffeehouses, music was stopped.
而后，机场和荷兰举国默哀一分钟。公立电视台NOS报道了飞机降落后全国各地教堂钟声响起的场面。卡车司机将车停到高速路边，他们中许多人在车辆上绑了黑丝带。商店和咖啡馆停止播放音乐。
At the airfield, soldiers representing all of the Dutch armed forces entered the planes after the drivers of the fleet of hearses opened the back doors of their vehicles simultaneously.
机场上，代表荷兰三军各部的士兵走入飞机，与此同时，灵车驾驶员将各自车辆的后门打开。
After all 40 coffins had been loaded in, the cars left in a column toward Hilversum, an hour and a half north. One of the Netherlands’ main highways, the A2, was partly closed off. Along the highway and on overpasses, people, some crying, threw flowers. Cars driving in the other lane stopped as the hearses passed.
全部40具棺木装入车中后，灵车呈一列纵队向北行驶，前往距离一个半小时车程的希尔弗瑟姆。A2高速公路，荷兰的主要高速路之一，已经部分关闭。在路边和人行天桥上，人们在投掷花朵，一些人在哭泣。在另一车道行驶的车辆，在灵车经过时都停了下来。