It is the talk of lunchrooms, chat rooms and, most certainly, television green rooms across the globe: How and why could a modern passenger jet disappear without a trace?
世界各地的餐厅、聊天室，当然还有电视台休息室，全都在谈论这样一个话题：一架现代客机怎么会消失得无影无踪？这是为什么？
Along with the predictable U.F.O. theories, the suggestion, presumably facetious, that the television series “Lost” was secretly filming a new season became one of dozens of memes related to Flight 370, some more serious than others, on Twitter.
除了可想而知会有的UFO猜测之外，还有一种想必是开玩笑的说法，那就是电视剧《迷失》(Lost)正在秘密拍摄新一季的剧集。Twitter上有数十种关于MH370的传言，有些是开玩笑，有些比较认真，前述说法也在其中。
On chat rooms frequented by pilots and aviation experts, there was more informed discussion of the technical possibilities, such as a sudden decompression or mass electrical failure, and of how a transponder could be shut down. But even the best-informed were arriving at logical impasses.
在飞行员和航空专家常去的聊天室里，人们对技术方面的可能性进行了更为专业的讨论，比如突然出现的降压，或者大规模的电气故障。他们还就应答器为何会被关闭进行了讨论。但是，就连知识最丰富的人也陷入了逻辑困境。
The one constant, beyond the probability that a terrible tragedy lurked at the end of the story, was the factual void at its center, heightening the frenzy of speculation.
除了故事多半会以可怕的悲剧收场以外，困扰人们的一直是事实的缺失，人们的猜测热情也由此升温。
“A main ingredient for rumor generation and transmission is uncertainty,” said Nicholas DiFonzo, a social psychologist at Rochester Institute of Technology and author of “The Watercooler Effect.”
“谣言产生和传播的一个主要原因是事实不明，”罗彻斯特理工学院(Rochester Institute of Technology)的社会心理学家、《饮水机效应》(The Watercooler Effect)的作者尼古拉斯·迪丰佐(Nicholas DiFonzo)说。
Also fueling the intense interest is the suggestion of continuing danger. “Anything that even hints at making us feel less secure or threatened evokes our attention,” Dr. DiFonzo said. “It’s hard-wired into us.”
引发人们强烈兴趣的另一个因素是危险持续存在的感觉。“任何让我们感到不太安全或受到威胁的事情都会引起我们的关注，”迪丰佐说。“这是我们的天性。”
But the main reason for the fascination, he added, may be the sheer mystery, which allows everyone to play detective.
但他补充说，人们关注此事的主要原因或许仅仅是因为事情的神秘性，它使每个人都可以扮演侦探的角色。
So much uncertainty also opens the door for partisans to dwell on favored themes.
如此多的不确定性也为持有特定立场的人敞开了大门，他们可以就自己偏爱的主题展开讨论。
Many American newscasters, after saying that “of course it is premature to draw conclusions,” have veered toward hypotheses about terrorism as they host the usual scramble of former Federal Aviation Administration investigators, pilots turned authors, security experts and, in this case, oceanographers, who helped, at their best, to establish the outer limits of what remained frustrated guesswork.
说完“目前下结论当然为时尚早”之后，许多美国新闻主播都会转而谈论恐怖袭击的可能性，他们临时找来的嘉宾都是些老一套的角色，包括前联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)调查员、曾担任飞行员的作家、安全专家，以及与这起事件尤其相关的海洋学家。对于这件迄无成果的猜测工作，这些人都在尽力勾勒一个大致的轮廓。
CNN brought in Dan Rather, introduced as a newsman with long experience, to say, “I don’t rule out anything.” Robert Ballard, the deep-sea explorer who discovered the hulk of the Titanic, described the relatively shallow waters but strong currents of the Gulf of Thailand and the Strait of Malacca and wondered if the flight had continued into the Indian Ocean.
CNN请来了据称是资深新闻界人士的丹·拉瑟(Dan Rather)，拉瑟说，“我认为一切皆有可能。”曾发现“泰坦尼克号”残骸的深海探险家罗伯特·巴拉德(Robert Ballard)指出，泰国湾和马六甲海峡的水相对较浅，水流却很急，并且猜测飞机已经飞入印度洋。
Fox News was most aggressive with the terror theory. “I’m not afraid of the word terrorism,” Sean Hannity said as he pushed his expert guests to agree that given the latest statements from Malaysia that the plane appeared to have altered its route, foul play seemed all but certain. At the same time, Al Jazeera America, in its BBC-like fashion, was careful to stress the unknowns as the Malaysian authorities issued yet another contradictory account.
关于恐怖主义假设，立场最坚定的是Fox新闻频道(Fox News)。“我不害怕恐怖主义这个词，”肖恩·哈尼蒂(Sean Hannity)说，并且敦促他的专家嘉宾同意这个观点，因为马来西亚的最新声明表明，飞机似乎曾改变航线，这样一来，人为破坏似乎是铁板钉钉的事实。与此同时，在马来西亚官方发布又一个矛盾说法之后，半岛电视台美国频道(Al Jazeera America)以BBC式的风格谨慎地强调了未知因素。
In Iran, perhaps embarrassed that two of its citizens onboard had carried false passports, an influential lawmaker on Tuesday called the entire episode a form of psychological warfare by the United States to “sabotage the relationship between Iran and China and Southeast Asia.”
伊朗可能觉得有些尴尬，因为机上两名携带假护照的乘客都是伊朗公民。周二，一名颇有影响力的伊朗议员称整个事件是美国发动的一种心理战，为的是“破坏伊朗与中国和东南亚的关系”。
The passionate global interest, the mystery and modern technology came together more constructively with a crowdsourced digital search of Asian waters organized by DigitalGlobe, a satellite imaging company based in Colorado. The company has made available new satellite photographs of thousands of square miles of ocean in the target areas, and by Tuesday more than 80,000 volunteers had scoured patches for signs of debris, according to The Denver Post.
DigitalGlobe组织了一场亚洲水域的众包数字搜寻，以更具建设性的方式把全球范围的强烈兴趣、这次事件的神秘性和现代科技结合在了一起。DigitalGlobe是一家总部位于科罗拉多的卫星成像公司。该公司已经公布了目标区域数千平方英里海域的新卫星照片。据《丹佛邮报》(The Denver Post)称，截至周二，已有8万多名志愿者搜寻了显示有疑似残骸的地方。
Among experts in advanced location technology, the discussion centered on why modern aircraft do not have foolproof distress devices. Hans Peter Brondmo, who directs innovations including global positioning and mapping methods for a unit of Nokia, noted in an interview that his sailboat carries a device that will rise to the surface and send a distress call in the event of a mishap. “The technology for finding something is there,” he said. “The question is, why haven’t we done that yet for airplanes?”
在研究先进定位技术的专家当中，讨论的重点是现代飞机为什么没有配备万无一失的求救装置。汉斯·彼得·布朗德莫(Hans Peter Brondmo)供职于诺基亚(Nokia)旗下的一个部门，负责包括全球定位和绘图方法在内的创新。他在接受采访时指出，他自己的帆船就配有一台能在遭遇不幸时浮上海面发出求救信号的设备。“搜寻技术是现成的，”他说，“问题是，我们为什么还没把它用到飞机上？”