SYDNEY, Australia — Almost six months after Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared with 239 people on board, officials expressed cautious optimism Thursday that the jet would eventually be found, as Australia, China and Malaysia concluded agreements on continuing the search in the southern Indian Ocean for 12 more months.
澳大利亚悉尼 —— 马来西亚航空公司载有239人的MH370航班失踪近半年后，澳大利亚、中国和马来西亚于周四达成协议，将在南印度洋继续搜索12个月，官员对最终找到客机表示了谨慎的乐观。
“All of the countries involved remain cautiously optimistic that we will find the missing aircraft,” Australia’s deputy prime minister, Warren Truss, said at a news conference in Canberra, the Australian capital, with the Malaysian transport minister Liow Tiong Lai and China’s vice minister for transport, He Jianzhong.
澳大利亚副总理瓦伦·特拉斯(Warren Truss)在澳大利亚首都堪培拉的新闻发布会上说，“所有有关国家对我们会找到失踪的飞机保持谨慎的乐观。”马来西亚交通部长廖中莱、中国交通部副部长何建中也出席了联合新闻发布会。
Mr. Truss said teams continued to refine the search area, noting that data from a failed attempt to contact the plane with a satellite phone had provided some new information.
特拉斯说，搜寻队伍在不断细化搜索区域，并表示，来自一次用卫星电话联系该飞机的失败尝试的数据提供了一些新信息。
“After MH370 disappeared from the radar, Malaysia Airlines ground staff sought to make contact with the aircraft using a satellite phone,” Mr. Truss said. “That was unsuccessful. But the detailed research that is being done now has been able to identify or trace that phone call and help to position the aircraft and the direction it was traveling. That has suggested to us that the aircraft may have turned south a little earlier than we had previously expected.”
特拉斯说，“马航370从雷达上消失后，马来西亚航空公司地勤人员曾试图用卫星电话与飞机联系，没有成功。但现在正在进行的详细调查，已能识别或跟踪那次电话呼叫，并有助于确定飞机的位置及其飞行方向。这些结果向我们提出，该飞机可能在比我们先前估计的更早时候就转向南方。”
Flight 370 left Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on March 8 on an overnight flight to Beijing, but it inexplicably turned off course and headed south. Transmissions from the aircraft, known as electronic “handshakes,” captured by a satellite station in Perth indicated that the flight had come to an end off the west coast of Australia, somewhere on a long arc over the Indian Ocean.
马航370航班3月8日凌晨从马来西亚吉隆坡起飞，原定当夜飞往北京，但莫名其妙地偏离航线，掉头南下。珀斯一个卫星站捕捉到的、来自飞机的所谓电子“握手”信号表明，飞行在澳大利亚西海岸的海中结束，飞机最后的可能位置在印度洋的一个长弧形带中。
But a 52-day air search of the sea surface off Australia’s coast, as well as the use of towed undersea devices able to track “pings” from an aircraft’s so-called black boxes, failed to turn up a single trace of the Boeing 777-200. Officials believe the plane flew south for hours on autopilot, but they do not know why its communications systems were switched off or why it deviated from its flight path.
然而，对澳大利亚沿海为时52天的空中和海面搜索，包括使用拖曳式海下设备来探测飞机的所谓黑盒子发出的“ping信号”，都未能发现这架波音777-200型客机的任何踪迹。官员认为，这架飞机在自动驾驶下向南飞行了数小时，但他们不知道它的通信系统为什么被关闭，以及它为什么改变了行线。
Mr. Truss said no conclusions could be reached about what had happened in the plane’s cockpit until the black boxes were retrieved.
特拉斯说，在找到黑盒子前，不可能对飞机驾驶舱中发生了什么做出结论。
The search area remains on the arc determined by the last electronic handshake picked up from the plane, but Mr. Truss said the area had been refined slightly in light of the data gleaned from the failed satellite phone call.
虽然搜索区域仍是由飞机最后的电子握手信号确定的弧形带，但特拉斯说，根据失败的卫星电话数据，已对区域作了进一步的细调。
Mr. Truss also described the area of ocean floor where the Australian Transport Safety Bureau will lead a deep-sea search starting in September. In some places it is more than four miles deep, he said, and it is studded with volcanoes and plateaus that could damage surveying equipment.
特拉斯还介绍了要开展深海搜寻区域的海底情况，这项工作在澳大利亚运输安全局领导下将于9月份开始。他说，在某些地方，海底深度可达6.6公里，而且海底遍布着火山和高原，可能损坏勘测仪器。
A bathymetric survey, or mapping of the seafloor, in the search area has covered more than 33,000 square miles and revealed at least two volcanoes, as well as significantly greater depths than had been expected, Mr. Truss said.
特拉斯说，对搜寻区域的海底深度探测覆盖了6万平方公里的区域，至少发现了两座火山，海底也显著地比预期的要深。