BAMAKO, Mali — In a ransacked room on the third floor, a television set eerily broadcasted the France 24 news channel, where images of the attack were playing. In a room on the fourth floor, a half-eaten chicken sandwich sat next to a Turkish man’s passport on a bedside table. In an adjacent hallway, French troops serving with the United Nations stepped around drapes soaked with blood.
马里巴马科——在三层一个遭到洗劫的房间里，一台电视机诡异地播放着新闻频道France 24对恐怖袭击的报道。在四层的一个房间，床头柜上放了一个吃了一半的鸡肉三明治，旁边是一名土耳其男子的护照。在邻近的走廊，受命于联合国的法国士兵绕过沾满血迹的窗帘。
When gunmen stormed the Radisson Blu hotel in Mali’s capital, Bamako, Friday morning and killed at least 19 people (reportedly now as many as 27), they struck at the heart of West Africa’s engagement with the rest of the world. The Radisson was Bamako’s best hotel and the identities of the victims represent a snapshot of who has stakes in the region’s fight against terrorism.
当持枪者周五早上袭击马里首都巴马科的丽笙酒店(Radisson Blu hotel)，杀害至少19人（据报现在死亡人数已多达27人）时，他们击中了西非与世界联络的核心地带。丽笙酒店是巴马科最好的酒店，遇难者的身份反映了哪些国家在为该地区的反恐斗争提供支持。
Three Chinese railway executives on a business trip concerning a $1.5 billion plan to upgrade colonial-era train tracks that connect landlocked Mali with a seaport in neighboring Dakar, Senegal, were killed. Among the dead were also six Russian employees of a freight airline company that services the French military and United Nations mission in Mali, an American development consultant, Anita Datar, and a Belgian parliamentary official, Geoffrey Dieudonné, as well as citizens of Israel, Mali and Senegal.
一家中国铁路建设公司的三名高管遇难，他们此次出差是为了开展价值15亿美元的马里铁路改造计划，这条殖民时代的铁轨将内陆国家马里与塞内加尔首都达喀尔连接起来。遇难者还包括一家俄罗斯货运航空公司的六名员工、来自美国的开发顾问阿尼塔·达塔尔(Anita Datar)、比利时议会官员杰弗里·迪厄多内(Geoffrey Dieudonné)，以及以色列、马里和塞内加尔的公民。该航空公司为法国军队及联合国驻马里代表团提供服务。
Businesspeople from India, along with Turkish Airlines and Air France staff were holed up for hours before Malian special forces came to their rescue. Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote, took to Twitter to deny initial reports that he, too, had been among the hostages.
印度商人及土耳其航空公司(Turkish Airlines)和法国航空公司(Air France)的工作人员在被困数小时后，被马里特种部队营救。非洲首富阿里科·丹格特(Aliko Dangote)通过推特(Twitter)否认了他也被劫为人质的报道。
Mali, which was just recovering from traumatic years that saw a coup d’etat, a jihadist occupation, a French military intervention and a massive United Nations mission, has much to lose if international investors and diplomats stay away. The Radisson was considered a secure place for to stay; now, there are no safe havens.
多年来，马里遭遇了政变，被圣战分子占领，遭到法国军事干预，接受联合国规模巨大的特派团。如果投资者和外交人员都远离马里，这个刚刚摆脱创伤的国家的损失会很惨重。丽笙酒店被视作安全的停留地点；如今，没有安全的地方了。
“The railway deal with the Chinese will be put on hold. Investors are likely to back off Mali,” said Mamadou Coulibaly, who heads a Malian employers’ organization.
“与中国的铁路交易将会被搁置。投资者可能会放弃马里，”一个马里业主组织的负责人马马杜·库利巴利(Mamadou Coulibaly)说。
Because of the attack’s international nature, it brought swift and unanimous condemnations from President Obama, as well as the presidents of France, Russia and China: François Hollande, Vladimir V. Putin and Xi Jinping. Mali is no stranger to jihadist militancy, but no other attack has ever hit so directly at the country’s power center.
由于此次攻击具有国际性，奥巴马总统及法国、俄罗斯及中国的领导人——弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)、弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)及习近平立即一致表示谴责。马里对圣战并不陌生，但其他袭击从未如此直接地击中这个国家的权力中心。
Offshoots of Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb occupied the north of the country for nine months in 2012, implanting themselves in local communities and creating ties that have not yet been cut. French troops dislodged the jihadists in 2013, but since then the security situation has deteriorated, with terrorist attacks occurring further south, in areas once considered safe.
伊斯兰马格里布基地组织(Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb)的分支在2012年将该国北部地区占领了九个月，他们深入当地社区，创建了至今未被切断的联系。法国军队在2013年将圣战分子逐出，但从那时起，当地的安全形势不断恶化，曾被视作安全区域的南部地区也遭到恐怖袭击。
Over Mali’s northern border, the power vacuum that followed the NATO intervention in Libya has allowed arms to circulate freely. Jihadist groups have won back greater influence in the region.
在马里的北部边境，北约(NATO)介入利比亚后产生的权力真空使得军火可以自由流通。在该地区，圣战组织重新获得了更大的影响力。
A group named Al Mourabitoun, led by the veteran one-eyed Algerian jihadist Mokhtar Belmokhtar, claimed responsibility for the attack. In August, the Qaeda-aligned group attacked a hotel in Sévaré, in central Mali, killing 17. A United Nations security analyst, who asked to remain anonymous because he is not authorized to talk to the press, said that the munitions and tactics were similar in both assaults.
一个名叫独立纳赛尔主义运动(Al Mourabitoun)的组织宣称对袭击负责。该组织的头目叫穆赫塔尔·贝尔摩塔尔(Mokhtar Belmokhtar)，一个独眼的阿尔及利亚人，从事圣战活动多年。8月，与基地组织结盟的该组织袭击了马里中部塞瓦雷的一座酒店，导致17人死亡。联合国的一名安全问题分析人士表示，两起袭击使用的军火和战术类似。由于无权接受媒体采访，该人士要求匿名。
Jihadists who’d been involved in the 2012 occupation, before melting away when the French intervened, he said, “are reappearing, with new recruits.” This attack on civilians at Bamako’s most prestigious hotel could be a response to the Islamic State — a bid by Qaeda loyalists to remain relevant in a global jihadi scene that has evolved.
他说，参与了2012年的占领并在法国介入时逐渐散去的圣战分子“一直在做准备，招募新成员”。此次袭击巴马科最有名的酒店里的平民，可能是针对伊斯兰国做出的反应。基地组织的死忠试图通过此次袭击表明，在今非昔比的全球圣战舞台上，他们依然占据着一席之地。
What is certain is that this type of assault — led by a small group of militants armed with AK-47s and grenades, and ready to die — is becoming the universal modus operandi of terrorism. The threat of similar attacks in Belgium have forced the government there to virtually shut down Brussels, at the heart of Europe.
可以确定的是，一小群愿意赴死的激进分子携AK-47和手榴弹的这种袭击，正在成为通用的恐怖主义做法。在比利时，由于存在发生类似袭击的威胁，政府被迫几乎关闭了位于欧洲中心的布鲁塞尔。
In Mali, where the government’s grip is more tenuous, such an option is hardly feasible. The easy availability of assault weapons in Mali means that “as long as there are people willing to go on suicide missions,” the security analyst said, “this type of attack will be difficult to stop.”
在政府控制没那么强的马里，这种选择几乎是不可行的。前述安全分析人士称，在马里，不费吹灰之力便可获得攻击性武器。这意味着“只要有人愿意执行自杀式袭击任务，就难以阻止这种袭击”。
By the end of Friday, a curious crowd had gathered across the street from the Radisson, filming with their smartphones the comings and goings of soldiers and rescue workers. When the unit of Malian special forces that had led the rescue mission emerged from the hotel late in the day, the crowd cheered and broke into a chant of “Mali! Mali! Mali!”
到周五结束时，好奇的人群聚集在丽笙酒店的街对面，用自己的智能手机拍摄士兵和救援人员来来往往的场面。当天晚些时候，当领导救援任务的马里特种部队走出酒店时，人群欢呼了起来，并齐声高喊“马里！马里！马里！”
The mood changed from gloom and horror to joy and pride: If it weren’t for the brave efforts of the Malian soldiers, things could have been much worse. One man shouted, “we’re proud of our army” — words not often heard in a country that was forced to call on the former colonial power, France, to come to its aid in 2013.
气氛从忧虑和恐惧，变成了高兴和骄傲：如果不是马里士兵的英勇行动，情况会更加糟糕。一名男子喊道：“我们以我们的军队为荣”。在这个国家，这种话不常听到——2013年，马里还曾被迫向前殖民宗主国法国求援。
“Attacks like this are almost impossible to prevent,” said Mr. Coulibaly. “What is important is how we manage the fallout.”
“几乎不可能阻止像这样的袭击，”库利巴利说。“重要的是我们如何管理后果。”
Like their European counterparts, West African governments are struggling to deal with the threat posed by jihadist groups. Boko Haram in Nigeria and Al Qaeda and its offshoots in Mali have killed indiscriminately for years and consistently thwart Western and African efforts to eliminate them. Mali’s security forces and the spirited crowd who gathered to show them support have their work cut out for them.
和欧洲政府一样，西非政府也正在艰难地应对圣战组织构成的威胁。多年来，尼日利亚的博科哈拉姆（Boko Haram，旧译“博科圣地”）和马里的基地组织及其分支，不加选择地屠戮生命，也不断挫败西方和非洲政府为铲除它们而展开的行动。马里的安全部队，以及聚集起来向军队热情表示支持的民众，依然面临着艰巨的任务。