BEIJING — During the early morning tumult of getting the children ready for school, my gaze falls for a split second on a photograph on the refrigerator of three middle-aged Chinese women who have all helped raise my children over the last 13 years.
北京——清晨，在让孩子们做好准备去学校的忙乱之中，有那么一个瞬间，我的目光落到了冰箱上贴着的一张三名中年中国女人的合影上。在过去的13年里，她们都曾帮我照顾过孩子。
Yao Ayi, Shi Ayi and Wang Ayi are paid helpers, sure, but so much more — the allomothers, or “other mothers,” who make it possible for me to continue in a profession that is tough on parents, especially mothers who may feel the competing demands of work and family most acutely. Journalism is riven with deadlines and demands 24-hour attention. A bit like children.
没错，姚阿姨、史阿姨和王阿姨是我花钱雇来的帮手，但她们又远不止于此——这些“代妈妈”让我能继续自己的职业追求。对于做父母的人来说，这个职业非常艰难，尤其是母亲，她们感受到的工作和家庭之间的需求冲突最为剧烈。新闻记者是一个永远曾受着最后期限压力的职业，需要24小时的投入。有点像照顾小孩。
Women like these ayis (meaning “auntie,” it’s used for relatives and helpers alike) are everywhere in the world, and everywhere they can be wonderful. Child care is a global issue. Yet in China their ability to educate, as well as care, is striking. Even those from poor rural provinces are the beneficiaries of China’s nine years of compulsory schooling. The Beijing natives among them are as sophisticated as any New Yorker.
像三位阿姨（这里对帮忙照顾孩子的亲戚或保姆的称呼）这样的角色世界各地都有，也都有做得不错的。照顾孩子是一个全球性的问题。但在中国，她们教育和照料孩子的能力非常惊人。哪怕是来自贫穷的偏远省份的人，也接受过九年义务教育。如果是北京本地人，就跟纽约客一样见多识广。
They know so much, drawing on folk wisdom embedded in their culture. Even Shi Ayi, the most hapless of the three, was invariably right about the weather. “Bring an umbrella,” she’d say. “It’s going to rain.”
她们懂得很多东西，还会利用自己文化中固有的民间智慧。就连三人中境遇最不好的史阿姨也总能准确地预测天气。“拿把伞，”她会说。“今天要下雨。”
Many are self-taught health experts. “A standard cold,” Yao Ayi would say when one of my children was feverish, as I, for several gut-wrenching minutes, wondered if they had SARS, bird flu, even meningitis. Motherly anxiety is a deep well, and it was good to have her experienced voice.
她们多是自学成才的健康问题专家。“就是典型的感冒，”孩子发烧的时候，姚阿姨会这么说。而我自己则有那么几分钟会痛苦地琢磨他们是不是感染了SARS、禽流感，甚至是脑膜炎。身为母亲的焦虑像一口深井，让人无法自拔，能有她这样富有经验的声音在旁边提醒，是件好事。
And her encouraging words: “After the fever comes the intelligence!” There is a Chinese saying that after a fever a child takes a developmental step forward. (“发烧一次、聪明一次,’’ or “Fashao yici, congming yici.”) Western science teaches us that illness strengthens a growing child’s immune system, so perhaps it’s true.
她还会说一些鼓舞人心的话：“发烧一次，聪明一次！”这么一句中国老话的意思是，小孩子发一次烧，就能有所进步。西方科学告诉我们，疾病可以增强生长期儿童的免疫能力，所以这句老话或许有它的道理。
Leaving for a reporting trip some years ago, my 2-year-old son threw up on me as I said goodbye. Moments like this haunt working mothers. Was it a protest at my departure?
几年前，我有一次要出差做采访，在我跟2岁的儿子告别的时候，他扑到了我身上。这种时刻会让职场母亲心里不安。这是对我的离开表示抗议吗？
Yao Ayi helped me clean up the curdled milk. I caught my flight, feeling guilty but knowing that between my husband and her, he was in safe hands.
姚阿姨帮我解了围。我赶上了班机，尽管内心有负疚感，但我知道有丈夫和姚阿姨照顾，他不会有事。
In the photograph, Yao Ayi and Shi Ayi, joined by Wang Ayi, a neighbor’s helper who was part of the intimate network, sit behind my son and daughter and a friend, in my daughter’s bedroom, grinning broadly.
照片是在我女儿卧室里拍的，姚阿姨、史阿姨和王阿姨坐在我儿子、女儿和一位朋友的后面，开怀大笑着。王阿姨是邻居家的帮手，也是这个紧密圈子的一份子。
Mothers themselves, they had one child each in the 1980s, the years of the “one-child” policy.
她们自己也是母亲，每人只有一个孩子。这些孩子都出生在实行“一胎”政策的80年代。
I know some of their joys and troubles: Yao Ayi’s mother died recently, nursed by her daughter through a long illness. Shi Ayi’s nephew was arrested on suspicion of murder but later released. Wang Ayi’s daughter is chronically ill.
对于她们的苦与乐，我也略知一二：姚阿姨的母亲最近去世了，之前生病多年，一直由她女儿照顾。史阿姨的侄子曾因涉嫌杀人而被捕，后来获释。王阿姨的女儿长期患病。
Dong Ayi is missing from the photograph. She quit suddenly one day, suffering from depression.
董阿姨不在那张照片里。她有一天突然辞职了，因为患上了抑郁症。
I asked why, and she said: When her son was small, her in-laws declined to care for him because her husband was their second son and, in keeping with patriarchal and hierarchical tradition, they would only care for their elder son’s child.
我问她怎么会这样，她说：儿子小的时候，公婆拒绝帮忙照顾，因为她的丈夫是次子，而按照家族等级传统，他们只会照顾长子的孩子。
She worked at a mattress factory in Beijing, with no access to state child care. Her husband worked a day shift at the same factory, so she took a night shift, returning home at 6 a.m. to care for their son until her husband came home.
她当时在北京的一家床垫厂工作，也没有途径送孩子去公立的保育机构。她的丈夫在同一家工厂上白班，所以她就选择上晚班，清早六点回家照顾孩子，直到丈夫下班回来。
“When did you sleep?” I asked, staggered.
“那你什么时候睡觉？”我吃惊地问她。
“When the baby slept,” she shrugged. As a mother, I knew what that meant — in patches. No wonder she was depressed, even years later.
“孩子睡的时候，”她耸耸肩。作为一名母亲，我知道那意味着什么——偶尔打个盹儿。难怪她会抑郁，尽管是在多年以后。
In a series of talks recently in Beijing to Chinese and international groups, general, I’ve discussed family, marriage, work-life balance, journalism. And each time, young Chinese and foreign women approach afterward to ask: How do you combine journalism and motherhood?
最近我在北京与中外团体、普通人进行了一系列交谈，讨论家庭、婚姻、工作与生活的平衡、新闻职业。每次都有年轻的中国和外国女性在事后过来问我：你是如何兼顾新闻职业和母亲这一角色的？
I say: It’s really hard. You have to be tough. Tougher than anyone knows — unless she is also a working mother.
我说：真的很难。你必须很坚强。比任何人想象的都坚强——除非对方也是一名职场母亲。