WASHINGTON — Explosions of still-undetermined origin rocked a United States Army storage depot near Tokyo, the Pentagon said on Sunday. No injuries were reported.
华盛顿——五角大楼周日表示，东京附近一座美国军队的补给库发生了爆炸，原因尚不明确。目前没有人员伤亡的报道。
Firefighters at the Sagami Depot in the city of Sagamihara, about 25 miles southwest of Tokyo, were working to extinguish a blaze that followed the explosions, officials said.
相模补给库(Sagami Depot)位于相模原市，在东京西南方向约25英里处，消防员正在那里努力扑灭爆炸引发的火灾，官员说。
“There are no reports of injury, and base firefighters and first responders are currently fighting the resulting fire to prevent its spread to nearby buildings,” said Cmdr. Bill Urban, a Defense Department spokesman.
“目前没有人员受伤的报道，基地的消防员和应急人员正在扑火，以防火势蔓延至附近的建筑物，”国防部发言人比尔·艾宾中校(Cmdr. Bill Urban)说。
Masuo Kobayashi, a spokesman for the Sagamihara fire department, said a worker at the Army depot called around 12:45 a.m. local time. The fire department dispatched 13 firefighting teams, including more than 10 fire engines, Mr. Kobayashi said. Several hours later, the fire still had not been extinguished.
相模原市消防部门发言人小林正男（音）表示，该军用补给库的一名工人在当地时间凌晨12点45分打电话报警。消防部门出动了13个消防小组，包括10多辆消防车。数小时过后，大火仍未扑灭。
According to the Japanese broadcaster NHK, a worker at the Army depot told the fire department that the warehouse held oxide containers, and those seemed to have caught fire.
据日本NHK电视台报道，陆军补给库的一名工作人员告诉消防部门，仓库里存放有氧化物集装箱，起火的似乎是那些物品。
The Defense Department released a statement late Sunday night emphasizing that the building hit by the explosions and fire “is not designated as a hazardous material storage facility,” and “does not store ammunition or radiological materials.”
国防部在周日深夜发布了一则声明，强调发生爆炸和火灾的那栋建筑“未被指定为危险品存放地”，也“没有存放弹药或放射性材料”。
There were no evacuation advisories issued for nearby residents, and the possibility that the fire could expand or do further damage was thought to be low.
官方并未向附近居民发布疏散通知，火势扩大或造成进一步损害的可能性也被认为很低。
Video footage taken by a resident about 300 yards away from the depot showed a large, orange, smoldering glow as bursts of light resembling fireworks flashed through the night sky.
一位居民在距离事发仓库约300码的地方拍摄的视频显示，迸发出的火焰像烟花一样划破夜空，一大团阴燃的火发出了桔黄色的光。
The sounds of explosions continued for nearly 15 minutes.
爆炸的声音持续了近15分钟。
“When I was about to go to bed, I heard the sound of explosion and saw sparks coming off,” the woman who recorded the video said. “It smelled like gunpowder or something like that.”
“正要上床睡觉的时候，我听到爆炸的声音，看到火花四射，”录下视频的女子说。“闻着像火药或类似的东西。”