Even before he arrived in Beijing, Gary Locke, the United States ambassador, achieved a rare sort of national prominence in China. A 2011 photo of him with his daughter at a Starbucks in the Seattle airport, carrying his own backpack, was widely circulated on Chinese social media sites. Many praised Mr. Locke for his apparent humility — carrying his own bag and trying to pay for his drink with a coupon. Others, including some state media commentators, questioned whether Mr. Locke’s behavior was a carefully calculated display.
来到北京之前，美国驻华大使骆家辉(Gary Locke)就在中国赢得了少见的知名度。在摄于2011年的一张照片中，他自己背着背包，与女儿在西雅图机场的星巴克(Starbucks)买东西。这张照片在中国的社交媒体网站上广泛传播。许多人都对骆家辉这种外在的谦逊赞赏有加——他自己背包，还用优惠券买饮料。包括一些官方媒体评论员在内的其他人则提出了质疑，称骆家辉的举动可能是一场精心安排的表演。
Mr. Locke is scheduled to leave China on Saturday and is being succeeded by Max Baucus, a former United States senator from Montana who was sworn in as ambassador to China last week by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
按计划，骆家辉将于周六离开中国，他的职位将由前美国蒙大拿州参议员马克斯·鲍卡斯(Max Baucus)接替。上周，鲍卡斯在副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)的主持下宣誓就任驻华大使。
In advance of his departure, Mr. Locke gave an interview to the Chinese edition of Men’s Health magazine, which put him on the cover of its February edition. The interview was conducted by Lin Dan, one of the world’s best badminton players, who is known for his temperamental on-court antics.
离开之前，骆家辉接受了中文版《时尚健康·男士》的采访，该杂志把他作为2月号的封面人物。采访由林丹主持，后者是世界上最著名的羽毛球运动员之一，以赛场上的兴奋举止而著称。
Mr. Locke avoided even mild controversy in the interview, declining to say whether he preferred Lady Gaga or the Chinese actress Fan Bingbing or whether he thought he or President Obama would win in a badminton duel.
采访过程中，骆家辉刻意避免了哪怕很小的争议。他拒绝回答自己更喜欢Lady Gaga还是中国女演员范冰冰，也不愿透露，按他自己的感觉，他的羽毛球水平是不是比奥巴马高。
When asked about the difficulty of exercising outdoors in Beijing, he responded that he was acclimated to bad weather from his time in Seattle. Mr. Lin later asked more directly whether he would discuss PM 2.5, the tiny particles in polluted air, with his successor. Mr. Locke said that he would not.
被问及在北京进行户外锻炼的困难时，他回答说自己在西雅图生活时就已经适应了恶劣天气。林丹随后提出了更加直接的问题，问他是否会同自己的继任者讨论PM 2.5的问题。骆家辉说不会。PM 2.5是污染空气中的微细颗粒。
“Everyone already understands this problem, and the Chinese government and people are now earnestly facing this problem,” he said, according to a translation of the interview, which was published in Chinese.
根据用中文发表的采访译文，骆家辉说，“因为每个人都已了解了这个问题，并且中国政府和人民正在认真对待这个问题。”
Mr. Lin also asked Mr. Locke about his workout regime, including his ability to do a plank, an exercise that requires suspending oneself in a position similar to the start of a pushup, only with one’s forearms flat on the ground. Mr. Locke, 64, confirmed that his personal record for holding the position is 51 minutes.
林丹还询问了骆家辉的锻炼方法，其中包括他做平板支撑的成绩。这项练习要求锻炼的人让自己的身体悬空，姿势类似于开始做俯卧撑时的动作，区别在于前臂要平放在地上。64岁的骆家辉说，自己保持这一姿势的个人纪录是51分钟。
Mr. Lin, 30, who has won every major badminton title including the World Championships and gold medals at the Olympics, marveled at that, saying he could only hold the position for three minutes at most.
林丹曾赢得羽毛球领域所有重要赛事的冠军，其中包括世锦赛和奥运会冠军。30岁的他觉得骆家辉的纪录不可思议，称自己最多只能保持3分钟。
Did Mr. Locke want to try to break the world record for the plank, which is now over three hours? Mr. Lin asked.
林丹问骆家辉，想不想打破平板支撑超过三小时的世界纪录。
“If I can do an hour I would be very happy,” the ambassador replied. “I just want to know what my limit is.”
“如果我能做一小时我将很高兴，”这位前大使回答道，“我只想知道我的极限是多少。”
The magazine’s cover, which shows a trim-looking Mr. Locke in a black T-shirt, includes a decidedly boastful line about his plank record: “Who can defeat Gary Locke?”
在该杂志的封面上，身形挺拔的骆家辉穿着黑色的T恤衫，旁边是一句明显夸奖他平板支撑成绩的话：“谁能PK骆家辉？”