A light drizzle was falling on the village of Jilong on the afternoon of Dec. 17 when a large black sport utility vehicle pulled up to a parking area next to the pond. Out of it stepped Gary Locke, the American ambassador, who this month is expected to leave his post and return to his hometown of Seattle. This was Mr. Locke’s fifth visit to his ancestral village in the Taishan region of Guangdong Province, and his third and possibly final one as ambassador to China.
12月17日下午，吉龙村下着蒙蒙细雨，一辆大型黑色运动型多功能车停在了池塘边的停车场上。美国驻华大使骆家辉(Gary Locke)从车上走了下来。按计划，他将于本月离职，回到家乡西雅图。这是他第五次探访自己位于广东台山的祖居，也是他作为驻华大使第三次或许也是最后一次来到这里。
The rain tapered off as Mr. Locke and embassy colleagues walked around the pond to the front of the village. With the clearing weather, the crowd of 50 or 60 people began swelling to more than 100, all of whom wanted to greet Mr. Locke. On hand to document the event for Modern Weekly, a Chinese news magazine, was Alan Chin, an American photojournalist who lives in Brooklyn. Alan was spending one month in Taishan for a personal book project. His ancestral village is also in Taishan, and he can speak the local language, which has given him far greater access to the people there than most foreign journalists are able to get.
骆家辉和使馆同僚绕过池塘，走到村前，雨逐渐停了下来。随着天气放晴，五六十人的人群增加到了100多人，他们都想向骆家辉表示问候。住在布鲁克林的美国摄影记者陈本儒(Alan Chin)也在现场，为中国新闻杂志《周末画报》记录了这件事。陈本儒为自己的一个图书项目来到了台山，打算在这里待一个月。他会说当地语言，因此比大多数外国记者都更容易与当地居民进行交流。
Taishan is better known to most of the world by its Cantonese name, Toishan. For decades, it was the main origin point of the Chinese diaspora. Immigrants from Taishan settled in Chinatowns in the United States and other countries, mostly taking low-wage jobs in restaurants, laundromats and convenience stores. Their goal in their new country was to move to the suburbs, where their children would in theory become better educated and move on to college and professional careers. While building their lives far from China, the first-generation immigrants would also send remittances to their home villages.
对于世界大部分地区的人而言，台山这个地名的广东话发音可能更加耳熟能详。数十年来，它一直是中国移民的主要输出地。来自台山的移民往往会去美国和其他国家的唐人街定居，大多都在餐厅、自助洗衣店和便利店做着薪水很低的工作。他们在新国家的目标就是搬到郊区，这样一来，他们的孩子理论上就能受到更好的教育，进入大学学习，进而成为专业人士。这些第一代移民一边在远离中国的地方创造自己的生活，一边也会给家乡汇款。
My family on my father’s side is from Taishan. My mother’s family is from the neighboring area of Kaiping, called Hoiping in Cantonese. I first visited my ancestral villages in 2009 with Alan, with whom I had worked four years earlier in Iraq. While traveling around the lush countryside of Taishan and Kaiping, abundant with rice paddies and water buffalo, we did a story on the incongruous European-style towers of the area. In 2012, I went back to Guangdong Province with my father, but he was more interested in reconnecting with old high school friends in Guangzhou, mostly in their 80s now, than in going back to the ancestral village, which was mostly empty. Many of the houses were deserted, and our own family villa had a tree growing through it.
我父亲祖居台山，母亲的祖居则是邻近的开平。2009年，我和陈本儒一起第一次来到了自己的故乡。四年前，我与陈本儒曾在伊拉克共事。台山和开平的葱郁乡野到处都是稻田和水牛，在这里游览的时候，我们针对与这片地区格格不入的欧式塔楼写了一篇报道。2012年，我和父亲一同回到广东，但他对重新联系广州的高中老同学（他们大多都80多岁了）更感兴趣，并不急于返回祖居的村庄，那座村庄几乎已经无人居住。许多房子都成了弃屋，我们家的房子里则长出了一棵树。
Mr. Locke and I share common ancestry. One of my great-grandfathers on my father’s side is a grandfather of Mr. Locke on his mother’s side. That man was a successful merchant of herbal medicine who lived mostly in Hong Kong and married twice. He had 17 children with the two women, and Mr. Locke and I are descended from different wives, my father once told me.
骆家辉和我祖上沾亲。我的曾祖父是骆家辉的外祖父。我的曾祖父是一个成功的草药商人，主要在香港生活，结过两次婚。我父亲曾经告诉我，我的曾祖父和两任妻子育有17个子女，骆家辉和我分别是他两任妻子的后代。
Last week, I reached Alan by telephone to ask him about documenting Mr. Locke’s last visit.
上周，我通过电话联系到了陈本儒，了解他记录骆家辉最后一次台山之行的情况。
“Considering that my whole project here is on Toishan, and Locke is the most prominent Toishanese guy there is in the universe, and given the fact that he was visiting while I was here, I had to check it out,” Alan said. “Honestly, it was more of a show than I had expected. Since this was his fifth time here, I thought it would be more subdued.”
“鉴于我在这里的整个计划都是关于台山的，骆家辉又是世界上最有名的台山人，又考虑到他来的时候我正好在这里，所以我必须办好这件事，”陈本儒说。“说实话，这件事作秀的成分比我预想的多。我本来以为这种成分会少一些，因为这是他第五次来这里了。”
There were two professional lion dancers on hand, the same men who had performed for Mr. Locke on previous visits. There were village elders and police officers and local officials. The only time Mr. Locke had a bit of privacy with his family members was when he walked through a narrow alleyway to the ancestral home near the rear of the village. He spoke to his 87-year-old great-uncle as they ambled together down the alley.
现场有两个专业舞狮子的。骆家辉之前几次来的时候，他们就为他表演过。此外还有村子里的老人、警察和地方官员。骆家辉走过一条狭窄的小巷子，去往位于村后的祖屋，这是他此行唯一一段和家族成员有些许隐私的时间。骆家辉和87岁的叔公一起缓步走过那条巷子，其间还聊起了天。
The family home is a modest one-story building made of limestone, typical of traditional houses in the area. Mr. Locke laid eyes on it for the first time in 1997, when he traveled to Jilong while serving as governor of the state of Washington.
骆家祖屋是一栋用石灰岩建成的平房，并不惹眼，当地的老屋大多如此。1997年，骆家辉在华盛顿州州长任上来到吉龙，首次见到了这栋祖屋。
“In the house, everyone kept coming in,” Alan said. “The original plan was for him to spend some private time in the house, but that plan didn’t work out. Everyone came up and said they were a cousin or uncle or aunt.”
“他进屋之后，所有人在都往里涌，”陈本儒说，“原本是计划让骆家辉私下在屋子里待一会儿，但这个计划未能实现。所有人都来了，说自己是骆家辉的七大姑八大姨，或是叔伯兄弟。”
In some ways, the visit was like previous ones, though there was greater formality to the earlier occasions. On his first trip to the village as the American ambassador, in November 2011, Mr. Locke had had to make a stop in the provincial capital to meet with the Guangdong party chief, Wang Yang. On a visit last April, Mr. Locke, his wife and their children performed rites typical of Qingming, or the Tomb Sweeping Festival, when Chinese honor their ancestors. Residents said the family lit incense and provided two roast pigs for the village. It was properly filial.
从某些方面来说，这次还乡之行和前几次类似，只不过前几次更正式。2011年11月，骆家辉首次以美国驻华大使的身份造访吉龙村，其间不得不在广东的省会稍作停留，同时任广东省委书记汪洋会面。在去年4月那次返乡之行期间，骆家辉和妻儿举行了清明节的典型仪式。清明节是中国人缅怀祖先的节日。当地居民说，骆家辉一家上了香，送了两只烤猪给村里，做得很有孝道。