COME with me to the Battery, to the tip of Manhattan, where the sea meets the city, where the sea once was, where the sea may be again someday.
和我一起到炮台公园(Battery)，到曼哈顿的尽头，到大海和城市相接的地方。那里曾是大海，未来可能还会变成大海。
We are going to ride through an underwater garden, inside giant fish that shimmer with electric bioluminescence. They dart and pause, skim and school within a nautilus shell of stainless steel and glass, set in the Battery Bosque, 200 yards from Castle Clinton, which served as the New York Aquarium until 1941.
我们将搭乘闪烁着电子生物光的大鱼，在水下花园里游动。大鱼在一个用不锈钢和玻璃做成的鹦鹉螺外壳里猛冲，暂停，掠过或成群游动。外壳固定在炮台公园(Battery Bosque)里。那里离克林顿城堡(Castle Clinton)只有200码（约合183米），1941年之前，克林顿城堡是纽约水族馆(New York Aquarium)。
This is the $16 million SeaGlass carousel, developed by the Battery Conservancy. It is set to open on Thursday. Young and old will be charged $5 each for a three-and-a-half-minute ride that might more accurately be called an immersion.
这个名为“海玻璃”(SeaGlass)的旋转木马是炮台公园保护委员会(Battery Conservancy)筹资1600万美元开发修建的，计划周四（8月13日）开业。不论老少，每人付5美元，可以乘坐（更准确的说是沉浸）3.5分钟。
“Children and adults should feel as if they are fish,” said Warrie Price, president and founder of the conservancy, which manages the park in partnership with the city. Ms. Price pushed for a dozen years, against many obstacles, to get the carousel financed, designed and built.
“孩子和大人们应该会感觉自己变成了鱼，”保护委员会主席兼创始人沃莉·普赖斯(Warrie Price)说。该委员会和市政府共同管理这个公园。十几年来，普赖斯克服重重阻碍，给这个旋转木马筹集资金，安排设计和建造。
Hurricane Sandy intervened, regulatory and safety hurdles arose, construction managers changed and the first glass oculus in the pavilion roof cracked — not that it had been easy, in any case, to create a four-turntable machine, 46 feet in diameter, for which few if any precedents existed.
修建过程困难重重：飓风桑迪(Hurricane Sandy)的破坏；出现管理和安全方面的限制；工程经理换人；亭顶的第一块圆形玻璃窗破裂。修建一个直径46英尺（约合14米）、有四个转盘的机器无论如何都不会容易，因为之前几乎没有这样的东西。
But let’s get back to the fantasy.
不过，我们还是回到这个梦幻般的旋转木马里吧。
An imperious 14-foot-high translucent fiberglass angelfish beckons, as do five stout butterflyfish, each seven feet high. A gorgeous pink crown tail belongs to an 11-foot Siamese fighting fish, outdone in its flamboyance only by the 12-foot yellow lionfish. Triggerfish, wrasses and a blue discus also await. There are 30 fish in all.
一只14英尺（约合4.3米）长的霸道的半透明玻璃纤维天使鱼正在向你招手，还有五只胖乎乎的蝴蝶鱼，每只长七英尺（约合2.1米）。绚丽的粉色冠尾属于一只11英尺（约合3.4米）长的暹罗斗鱼，它的华丽程度仅次于一只12英尺（约合3.7米）长的黄色狮子鱼。几只扳机鱼、隆头鱼和一只蓝色七彩神仙鱼也在等候你。共有30只鱼。
Climb in. Almost every fish is big enough to carry an adult with a small child. Youngsters 42 inches or taller may ride alone. Two stationary Siamese fighting fish have enough room for wheelchairs. Don’t expect a carousel ride like any you remember. The main turntable of SeaGlass rotates clockwise, as quickly as two-and-a-half revolutions a minute. Three 17-foot turntables mounted within the main turntable, each carrying six fish, rotate back and forth 120 degrees, up to five times a minute. Further, the 18 moving fish yaw 160 degrees, nearly four times a minute.
坐进去看看。几乎每只鱼都够大，可以乘坐一个大人和一个小孩。42英寸（约合107厘米）以上的少年可以独自乘坐。两只静止的暹罗斗鱼空间够大，能放下轮椅。它跟你以前坐过的旋转木马都不一样。海玻璃的主转盘每分钟以顺时针方向飞速旋转2.5圈。主转盘里安装了三个17英尺（约合516厘米）高的转盘，每个转盘装有六只鱼，能前后旋转120度，每分钟转五次。而且，那18只移动的鱼每分钟大约偏荡四次，荡幅为160度。
The 18 twisting fish also go up and down two and a half feet — except the lionfish and the largest angelfish, whose strokes were shortened so their fins would not scrape the ceiling of the carousel pavilion at their apogee.
那18只扭动的鱼还会上下振动2.5英尺（约合76厘米）——除了狮子鱼和最大的天使鱼，它们的摆幅较小，以免鱼鳍在最高处刮到天花板。
At times, the multiple rotations cancel out one another, leaving you momentarily frozen in space, staring through curved glass walls at the gardens outside, while projected aqueous patterns undulate on the spiral ceiling. Then you are suddenly carried off by a resistless current, as pouting fish faces rush by randomly, left and right.
有时，多重旋转会相互抵消，让你在那个空间里短暂静止，你可以透过弧形玻璃墙观看外面的花园，或者观看投射在螺旋形天花板上的波动水纹。然后，你突然被一股不可抵挡的水流冲走，撅着嘴的鱼脸在你周围自由地快速穿梭。
A bubbly, hurdy-gurdy rendition of the first movement of Mozart’s 40th Symphony, adapted by the composer Teddy Zambetti of Sirius XM satellite radio, may accompany your ride. Or perhaps it will be the darker, metronomic “Dance of the Knights,” from Prokofiev’s “Romeo and Juliet.” The sound comes from all around and under you, because speakers are mounted in the fish.
背景音乐是莫扎特(Mozart)欢快的《第四十交响曲》(40th Symphony)的第一章，由Sirius XM卫星电台的作曲家泰迪·赞贝蒂(Teddy Zambetti)改编，用手风琴演奏。背景音乐也可能是更阴郁的节奏感强的《骑士之舞》(Dance of the Knights)，它来自普罗科菲耶夫(Prokofiev)的《罗密欧与朱丽叶》(Romeo and Juliet)。音乐从你的四周和下方传来，因为扩音器是安在鱼身上的。
Your fish changes color, too. It begins in a sandy pastel shade you might find in a piece of sea glass. But the circular seating aperture is ringed by LEDs that can turn the fish cobalt blue or jade green or hot pink. Reflective disks mounted under the fiberglass skin shoot out rainbow-colored shards of light.
鱼还会变色。一开始是浅黄色，你在某些海玻璃上能找到这种颜色。但是圆形就座空间被LED灯环绕，那些灯能把鱼变成钴蓝色、翠绿色或桃红色。安装在纤维玻璃表层下面的反射圆盘能发射出彩虹色的灯光。
This may sound like sensory overload, but a 63-year-old reporter found the experience enthralling. (Just to be sure, I tried SeaGlass a half-dozen times one evening last week before I was finally talked off the ride by adult supervisors.)
这听起来可能有点感官超载，但是一位63岁的记者说，乘坐这个旋转木马的体验令人着迷（为了弄清这话是否属实，有一天晚上我去试了六次，直到最后被成年监护人劝说离开）。
Paradoxically, the need for such a whimsical marvel arose in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which leveled the World Trade Center, less than a mile from the Battery, and took 2,753 lives in New York.
貌似矛盾的是，9·11恐怖袭击后，人们反倒更需要这种异想天开的神奇事物。9·11恐怖袭击将离炮台公园不到一英里（约合1.6公里）的世贸大厦(World Trade Center)夷为平地，导致2753人丧生。
At a time when smart people feared that Lower Manhattan was doomed, expressions of optimism and joy were welcome. A carousel, especially one honoring the Battery’s maritime history, seemed intriguing, if unlikely.
在聪明人担心下曼哈顿气数将尽时，人们欢迎乐观和快乐的表达。一个旋转木马，特别是向炮台公园的海洋历史致敬的旋转木马，显得很迷人，简直有点不可思议。
It was also intended to lift a general pall that had cloaked the Battery over the years as more and more memorials were erected there. Revitalization had begun in 1994 with the creation of the conservancy, headed then as now by Ms. Price.
这些年，炮台公园地区修建了越来越多纪念馆，旋转木马的修建也是为了去除笼罩在这里的阴影。1994年，随着保护委员会（从那时起一直到现在都是由普赖斯领导）的创立，复兴开始了。
In 2004, the architects Claire Weisz and Mark Yoes (now doing business as WXY) presented a sketch of what Ms. Weisz described as a “magical ride to the bottom of the ocean on transparent dolphins.” They had previously worked at the Battery with the landscape architect Piet Oudolf.
2004年，建筑师克莱尔·魏斯(Claire Weisz)和马克·约斯（Mark Yoes，他们现在开设了WXY公司）设计了“骑着透明海豚游向海底的神奇旅行”（魏斯的描述）的草图。他们和景观建筑师皮特·奥多尔夫(Piet Oudolf)曾合作过。
To translate that vision, Ms. Price engaged George Tsypin of the George Tsypin Opera Factory, set designer of the Broadway musical “Disney’s The Little Mermaid.”
为了把这个设想变为现实，普赖斯请来了乔治·齐平戏剧工厂(George Tsypin Opera Factory)的乔治·齐平。他是百老汇音乐剧《迪士尼的小美人鱼》(Disney’s The Little Mermaid)的布景设计师。
“You can’t ride a fish like a horse,” Mr. Tsypin said. “You have to invent a new way of interacting. You have to imagine yourself as a little child: You want to become a fish.” And fish do not move like horses in a steeplechase.
“你不能像骑马那样骑鱼，”齐平说，“你必须创造一种新的互动方法。你必须把自己当成小孩：你想变成鱼。”鱼是游动，而不是像障碍赛马中的马那样跳动。
“The main challenge was to come up with something fluid,” Mr. Tsypin said. That assignment fell to Industries Show Canada of Laval, Quebec, a builder of fanciful entertainment attractions, with origins in the elevator business.
“最大的挑战是创造流动的感觉，”齐平说。这个任务被交给了魁北克省拉瓦尔的加拿大演艺产业公司(Industries Show Canada)。这家公司最初是生产电梯的，现在专门建造奇特的娱乐设施。
Ground was broken in 2010. The turntable was installed in August 2012, two months before Hurricane Sandy. The project’s site had deliberately been raised one foot above the flood plain. That elevation, and sandbag barriers, saved the machinery. But the storm brought havoc to the Battery and to Ms. Price’s plans.
2010年，他们实现了突破。2012年8月，转盘装好了。两个月后，飓风桑迪来袭。施工场地本就故意设计得比漫滩高一英尺。再加上防汛沙袋，机器幸免于难。但是这场暴风雨给炮台公园带来很大破坏，也扰乱了普赖斯的计划。
It was not until this May that André Laniel, project manager for Industries Show Canada, was able to oversee installation of the fish in the pavilion.
直到今年5月，加拿大演艺产业公司的项目经理安德烈·拉涅尔(André Laniel)才得以监督安装亭中的鱼。
“Ils vont nager bientôt” — they will swim soon — he said with satisfaction, as a discus, a Siamese fighting fish and two angelfish landed at the Battery after an overnight drive from Laval in jumbo wooden crates on a flatbed trailer.
“它们会游得很快，”他看着一只七彩神仙鱼、一只暹罗斗鱼和两只天使鱼安装到转盘上后满意地说。这些鱼是装在特大木条箱中放在平板拖车上连夜从拉瓦尔运来的。
The test run last week drew a half-dozen children — friends and family of those who helped build the carousel — along with Ms. Weisz, Mr. Yoes and Layng Pew of WXY; Mr. Tsypin; Mr. Laniel, who played ringmaster; Mr. Zambetti; Marc Simmons of Front Inc., glass consultants; and Kyle Chepulis of Technical Artistry, lighting and design consultants.
上周的试运行吸引了六个孩子，他们是旋转木马建造者的朋友和家人，还有WXY公司的魏斯、约斯和拉昂·皮尤(Layng Pew)；齐平；拉涅尔，他负责指挥；赞贝蒂；玻璃咨询公司Front Inc.的马克·西蒙斯(Marc Simmons)；以及灯光和设计咨询公司Technical Artistry的凯尔·齐普利斯(Kyle Chepulis)。
Ms. Price, who could not attend, sent me a note beforehand to describe her vision of the long- and short-term future: “The SeaGlass show will continue to grow and evolve. New music will be composed, new lighting technology will come and go, and the stories of the sea will be written and acted.”
无法到场的普赖斯提前发来一封短信，描述了她的长期和短期计划：“海玻璃的表演将继续扩大发展。我们会创作新的音乐，采用新的灯光技术，编写和展示更多的海洋故事。”
For now, the peals of the children told the story. Their laughter echoed in the pavilion, sounding a bit like dolphins on the loose.
目前来看，孩子们的欢声笑语已经说明了一切。她们的笑声在亭子里回荡，听起来有点像逍遥的海豚。
The SeaGlass carousel, in the Battery, Lower Manhattan, will operate from 1 p.m. to midnight on Thursday, its opening day. Thereafter it will be open daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., every month except January and February. Rides cost $5; thebattery.org.
下曼哈顿炮台公园的海玻璃旋转木马周四（8月13日）开业，当天从下午1点运营到午夜。之后的营业时间是每天上午10点至晚上10点，1月份和2月份停业。价格：每次5美元；thebattery.org。
Manhattan
曼哈顿
CENTRAL PARK CAROUSEL The granddaddy of New York City merry-go-rounds. Don’t look for a mule powering it from underneath — it’s not 1873 anymore; midpark at 64th Street; centralparknyc.org; $3.
中央公园旋转木马(Central Park Carousel)：纽约市旋转木马的始祖。不要探头看下面是不是有只驴在给它提供动力，现在不是1873年啦；位于第64街公园中部；centralparknyc.org；3美元。
LE CARROUSEL For a little French cabaret music with your ride, try Bryant Park; Avenue of the Americas, at 40th Street; bryantpark.org; $3.
旋转木马(Le Carrousel)：如果你想在乘坐时听一点法国卡巴莱音乐(cabaret)，那你可以试试布莱恩特公园(Bryant Park)的旋转木马；美洲大道(Avenue of the Americas)；第40街；bryantpark.org；3美元。
TOTALLY KID CAROUSEL Children’s drawings carved into carousel creatures in Harlem; Riverbank State Park, 679 Riverside Drive, at West 145th Street; nysparks.com; $1.
完全小孩旋转木马(Totally Kid Carousel)：哈莱姆区这个旋转木马的动物身上刻着孩子们的画；河畔国家公园(Riverbank State Park)，河畔大道679号；西145街；nysparks.com；1美元。
Staten Island
史丹顿岛(Staten Island)
CONSERVATION CAROUSEL Ride models of hand-carved endangered species, like a poison dart frog or a giant panda, at the Staten Island Zoo; 614 Broadway, on the north shore of the island; statenislandzoo.org; $2.
保护区旋转木马(Conservation Carousel)：史丹顿岛动物园的这个旋转木马里放置的模型是手工雕刻的濒危动物，比如毒箭蛙和大熊猫；百老汇614号；小岛的北部海滩；statenislandzoo.org；2美元。
Bronx
布朗克斯
BUG CAROUSEL Ride a dung beetle at the Bronx Zoo (but adults will need to pay the $30-$34 zoo admission). Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Fordham; bronxzoo.com.
虫子旋转木马(Bug Carousel)：在布朗克斯动物园骑上金龟子（但是成年人需要支付30至34美元的公园门票费）。布朗克斯河畔公园大道(Bronx River Parkway)和福德姆路(Fordham Road)交叉口，福德姆；bronxzoo.com。
Brooklyn
布鲁克林
JANE’S CAROUSEL Hard to match the views from this Dumbo ride, in a Jean Nouvel pavilion. Brooklyn Bridge Park between the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges; janescarousel.com; $2.
简的旋转木马(Jane’s Carousel)：在让·努维尔(Jean Nouvel)设计的亭子里，乘坐小飞象旋转，你能看到无与伦比的景色。位于布鲁克林桥和曼哈顿桥之间的布鲁克林桥公园(Brooklyn Bridge Park)；janescarousel.com；2美元。
PROSPECT PARK CAROUSEL With horses carved long ago by Charles Carmel. Near the Willink entrance, at Flatbush Avenue and Empire Boulevard; prospectpark.org; $2.
展望公园旋转木马(Prospect Park Carousel)：这里的木马是很久以前由查尔斯·卡梅尔(Charles Carmel)雕刻的。位于弗拉特布什大道(Flatbush Avenue)和帝国大道(Empire Boulevard)交叉口的威林克(Willink)入口附近；prospectpark.org；2美元。
Queens
皇后区
FLUSHING MEADOWS 
法拉盛草坪公园(Flushing Meadows)
CAROUSEL Cobbled from two old Coney Island carousels for the 1964-65 World’s Fair. In the Fantasy Forest Amusement Park in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, at 111th Street and 55th Avenue; $3.
旋转木马(CAROUSEL)：它是用1964年至1965年世博会上的两个科尼岛(Coney Island)旧旋转木马改造而来的。位于法拉盛草坪可乐娜公园(Flushing Meadows-Corona Park)的梦幻森林游乐园，第111街和第55大道交叉口；3美元。