CUMANÁ, Venezuela — With delivery trucks under constant attack, the nation’s food is now transported under armed guard. Soldiers stand watch over bakeries. The police fire rubber bullets at desperate mobs storming grocery stores, pharmacies and butcher shops. A 4-year-old girl was shot to death as street gangs fought over food.
委内瑞拉库马纳——因为货车持续遭到袭击，这个国家的食物现在是在武装警卫护送下运输的。有士兵为面包店站岗。警方向突袭杂货店、药店和肉铺的绝望暴民发射橡皮子弹。在街头帮派争抢食物的过程中，一名4岁的女孩被枪击致死。
Venezuela is convulsing from hunger.
饥饿问题撼动了整个委内瑞拉。
Hundreds of people here in the city of Cumaná, home to one of the region’s independence heroes, marched on a supermarket in recent days, screaming for food. They forced open a large metal gate and poured inside. They snatched water, flour, cornmeal, salt, sugar, potatoes, anything they could find, leaving behind only broken freezers and overturned shelves.
库马纳是美洲地区一位独立战争民族英雄的出生地。最近几天，成百上千的民众冲击了这座城市的一个超市，高喊着讨要食物。他们强行打开一扇大铁门，冲了进去，抢走了水、面粉、玉米粉、盐、糖、土豆和任何能找到的东西，只留下被破坏的冰箱和打翻的货架。
And they showed that even in a country with the largest oil reserves in the world, it is possible for people to riot because there is not enough food.
他们的行为证明了，就算是在世界上石油储量最丰富的国度，人们也有可能因为缺少食物而发生暴乱。
In the last two weeks alone, more than 50 food riots, protests and mass lootings have erupted around the country. Scores of businesses have been stripped bare or destroyed. At least five people have been killed.
仅在过去两周时间里，这个国家就爆发了50多起食物引发的骚乱、抗议和大规模抢劫事件。许多店铺被洗劫一空或大肆破坏。至少五人丧生。
The nation is anxiously searching for ways to feed itself. The economic collapse of recent years has left it unable to produce enough food on its own or import what it needs from abroad. Cities have been militarized under an emergency decree from President Nicolás Maduro.
委内瑞拉正在焦急地寻找能让自己获得充足食物的办法。最近几年，国家经济崩溃令它无法自己生产足够的食物，也不能从国外进口所需商品。依照总统尼古拉斯·马杜罗(Nicolás Maduro)颁布的紧急法令，各个城市已经进入军事化状态。
About 72 percent of monthly wages are being spent just to buy food, according to the Center for Documentation and Social Analysis. In April, it found that a family would need the equivalent of 16 minimum-wage salaries to properly feed itself.
据社会分析与档案中心(Center for Documentation and Social Analysis)统计，就为了购买食物，人们要拿出月收入的72%左右。今年4月，该机构发现一个家庭需要相当于最低工资16倍的收入才能让全家人真正吃饱饭。
Ask people in this city when the last time they ate a meal, and many will respond that it was not today.
问问这个城市里的人，他们是上一次吃饭是在什么时候，很多人的回答都不是今天。
Among them are Leidy Cordova, 37, and her five children — Abran, Deliannys, Eliannys, Milianny and Javier Luis — ages 1 to 11. On Thursday evening, the entire family had not eaten since lunchtime the day before.
其中就包括现年37岁的莱迪·科尔多瓦(Leidy Cordova)和她年龄在1到11岁之间的五个孩子——阿布兰(Abran)、德利安尼(Deliannys)、埃利安尼(Eliannys)、米利安尼(Milianny)、哈维尔·路易斯(Javier Luis)。周四晚上，一家人都没吃饭。他们上一次用餐是在前一天中午。
“My kids tell me they’re hungry,” Cordova said as her family looked on. “And all I can say to them is to grin and bear it.”
“孩子跟我说他们很饿，”科尔多瓦说，她的家人就在旁边看着。“我只能让他们默默忍受。”