TAIPEI — Just two years ago, HTC, the Taipei-based mobile devices maker, was riding the crest of exploding global premium smartphone sales. It was racking up awards, a record stock price and a string of acquisitions, and was busy poaching rival executives for a continued assault on the dominance of Apple, Samsung and Research In Motion.
台北——就在两年前，台湾的移动设备生产商宏达国际电子(HTC)还在全球高端智能手机的销量大爆炸中大展宏图。它在各类奖项上屡有斩获、股价创下纪录、频频出手收购，还忙着从竞争对手那里挖高管，以期对苹果(Apple)、三星(Samsung)和RIM (Research In Motion)的强势地位持续发起猛攻。
Those days are little more than a memory. Its stock price has plummeted more than 88 percent since its April 2011 high. Profits for the second quarter, which ended June 30, were down 83 percent. The company warned that the third quarter looked bleaker still.
这样的日子已经一去不复返了。HTC股价与2011年4月的高点相比大跌88%，在今年6月30日结束的第二季度，利润下降了83%。公司还发出预警，第三季度的数据将更显惨淡。
It gets worse.
还有更糟的。
Several of those poached executives, brought onboard to help increase shipments and work on acquisitions have walked away, and there is a growing chorus for the ouster of the embattled chief executive, Peter Chou, as reports filter out of Taipei about an autocratic leader who is out of touch with the industry.
有几名挖来的高管已经离开，而本来的设想是，让他们帮助公司增加出货量并进行多宗收购。而且还有越来越高的呼声要求腹背受敌的首席执行官周永明(Peter Chou)下台，台北传出来的消息是，他独断专行，与行业脱节。
There were also the arrests last week of five departing executives accused of stealing company secrets and padding expense accounts. HTC had filed a complaint against the executives, who included the vice president of product design, Thomas Chien, and the research and development director Wu Chien-hung.
此外，五名即将离职的高管上周遭到拘捕，被控窃取商业机密及虚报报销账单。HTC对这些高管提起了诉讼，被告中包括产品设计副总裁简志霖(Thomas Chien)与研发总监吴建宏(Wu Chien-hung)。
“We are cleaning up inventory and at the same time rebuilding our brand,” said the company’s chief marketing officer, Ben Ho. “If we don’t, there really is no tomorrow for us. The shock came last year. This year we have tried to repent. Are we forgiven? No, the markets will punish you if you don’t repent and recover fast enough.”
HTC首席营销官何永生(Ben Ho)称，“我们在清理库存，同时也在重塑我们的品牌。如果不这样做的话，老实说，我们是没有明天的。去年我们受到了冲击，今年在努力反省。我们能松一口气吗？不能，如果反省和反弹地不够快，市场就会做出惩罚。”
Former employees say that marketing, sales and distribution problems, along with spiraling inventory costs, have killed momentum and are dragging HTC into unprofitability.
一些过去的员工表示，推广、销售和渠道方面的问题，加上直线上升的库存成本，扼杀了HTC的良好势头，将其拖入无法赚钱的境地。
In the quick-moving mobile devices industry, a lack of momentum is tantamount to a death sentence. Just ask Motorola or BlackBerry.
在瞬息万变的移动设备行业，气势衰竭无异于被判了死刑。问问摩托罗拉(Motorola)和黑莓(BlackBerry)就知道了。
HTC set up shop as a contract electronics maker in 1999. Founded by Cher Wang, daughter of the billionaire former chairman of Formosa Plastics, Wang Yung-ching, it had to worry only about its margins. The clients took care of the rest. Business was good.
HTC在1999年起步的时候是一家外包电子生产商。创始人王雪红(Cher Wang)的父亲是台塑集团(Formosa Plastics)的前董事长、亿万富翁王永庆(Wang Yung-ching)。当时，公司只需要烦恼利润这一件事，其他事情都由客户考虑，但生意蒸蒸日上。
In 2002, it listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange, starting a run of profitable quarters that will most likely be snapped with the next earnings report. HTC has said that it expects an operating margin of zero or a loss of as much as 8 percent for the third quarter.
2002年，公司在台湾证券交易所(Taiwan Stock Exchange)上市，开启了一个每季度连续盈利的时期。不过，这种情况极有可能到下次季报发布时嘎然而止。HTC表示，预计今年第三季度的营业利润率将在零与亏损8%之间。
By 2006 it had grown weary of slapping other companies’ brand names onto its products and decided to go it alone. A few years later, HTC developed the first smartphone that used Google’s Android operating system.
到2006年，公司对贴牌生产感到厌倦，决定自立品牌。几年后，HTC开发出了首款运行谷歌(Google)的Android操作系统的智能手机。
“HTC has always made great products,” said a recently departed executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation. “There are no problems on the hardware side of the ball. It just can’t sell to save itself. It’s relied too heavily on operator subsidies, and those are drying up for the premium phone market HTC likes to play in.”
一名最近离职的高管说，“HTC一直都能做出很棒的产品。硬件方面完全没有问题，但就是销售不佳，救不了自己。公司太倚仗运营商提供补贴了，但在HTC热衷参与的高端手机市场上，补贴越来越少。”由于事关敏感问题，此人要求在文中隐去姓名。
The market research firm Gartner said that HTC had shipped 24.6 million smartphones in 2010, accounting for about one in every 12 smartphones bought globally. In 2011, that share increased to 9.1 percent, with purchases surging to about 43 million units.
市场研究企业高德纳(Gartner)称，2010年，HTC的智能手机出货量为2460万部，约占全球智能手机销量的1/12。2011年，HTC的占有率上升到9.1%，销量飙升至4300万部左右。
In Taiwan, HTC was feted in the local media as the little company that could — the former contract maker now on the big stage for its innovation. Politicians urged the public to buy patriotically. HTC was an electronics flag bearer.
在台湾，HTC被当地媒体誉为拥有大能量的小公司，曾经的代工厂一跃登上了创新的大舞台。政坛人物呼吁民众支持本土产品，HTC成为了电子业的一面旗帜。
The company went on an acquisitions binge, spending more than $700 million, including splashy purchases of the U.S. graphics maker S3 Graphics for $300 million and the premium headphone maker Beats Electronics for $309 million.
HTC开始大肆收购，挥霍了逾7亿美元（约合42.8亿元人民币），其中包括两桩高调的收购：在美国显卡制造商S3图形(S3 Graphics)上花了3亿美元，在高端耳机制造商Beats电子(Beats Electronics)上花了3.09亿美元。
Beats, founded by the hip-hop producer known as Dr. Dre, viewed it as a company on the rise when it sold HTC a 51 percent stake. Investors grumbled that HTC had overspent. Beats eventually bought back half of HTC’s stake in 2012 for $5 million less than it had been paid and is looking to purchase the remaining shares.
Beats由艺名为Dr. Dre的嘻哈乐制作人创立。该公司51%的股份出售给HTC时，Beats自认为是一家冉冉上升的企业，但投资者纷纷抱怨HTC出价太高了。Beats后来在2012年回购了HTC所持股份的一半，价格比最初卖给HTC时低500万美元，该公司还在计划回购剩余部分。
By 2012, according to Gartner, HTC sold about 32.1 million smartphones. Market share plunged to 4.7 percent. It did manage, however, to resolve a long-running, costly and distracting patent dispute with Apple by agreeing to a 10-year licensing term from the technology giant.
根据高德纳的数据，2012年，HTC的智能手机销量约为3210万部，市场占有率猛跌至4.7%。不过，HTC倒是解决了与苹果之间耗时、费钱又花费精力的专利纠纷。HTC同意了苹果这个科技业巨头提出的为期10年的专利授权条款。
Gartner says HTC sold about 5.4 million smartphones in the first quarter of this year. Its market share fell again — this time to 2.5 percent. Many of the foreign executives brought in to oversee the acquisitions or sales and marketing left or were let go.
高德纳称，HTC今年第一季度的智能手机销量约为540万部，市场占有率进一步跌至2.5%。请来负责收购或市场销售的许多外国高管，不是主动辞职就是被动离开。
“They were too diversified,” said Jason Chien, a former mobile phone analyst with Topology Research Institute in Taipei. “Their portfolio was a mess and they wanted to make Android, Microsoft and Facebook phones. They should have concentrated on Android, instead of wasting their money on Windows and Facebook.”
贾森·简（Jason Chien，音译）曾在台北的拓墣产业研究所(Topology Research Institute)任手机分析师。他说，“HTC过于多元，产品组合一团糟，他们还希望制造Android、微软和Facebook手机。他们应该专注在Android上，而不是在Windows和Facebook上浪费钱。”
The second quarter improved slightly when it sold about 5.9 million units, amounting to 2.6 percent of market share.
今年第二季度的情况稍有好转，公司共售出约590万部设备，市场占有率为2.6%。
The flagship HTC One model, widely praised by reviewers as an impressive piece of hardware, was supposed to lift sales. Its release, however, was delayed until April. When it did make it to market, suppliers had problems manufacturing enough of the premium parts to keep up the momentum.
评测者曾广泛称赞旗舰机型HTC One是一款相当不错的产品，公司还指望通过它来提升销量。然而，这款机型的上市被推迟到了4月。当这款产品终于面世后，供应商却未能制造足够的高端配件来保持销售的势头。
In a Goldman Sachs research note in August, which downgraded HTC’s stock from neutral to sell, the investment bank warned that it did not expect the company to return to profitability until the second quarter of 2014 at the earliest.
在8月的一份调研报告中，高盛(Goldman Sachs)把HTC股票的评级由“中性”下调为“卖出”，并警告称，HTC预计最早也要到2014第二季度才能恢复盈利。
The report pointed to “limited clarity on strategies” and HTC’s recurring inventory problems and said that “sales execution and channel management remain below industry standards.” Other issues were that the company was potentially burning cash because of a “deteriorating product cycle” and the possibility of more debt.
报告指出，HTC“策略不够明确”，而且还反复出现库存问题。报告还说，其“销售执行和渠道管理仍低于行业标准”。其他问题还包括，公司可能是在烧钱，这是因为“产品周期恶化”，而且公司债务还有可能出现增加。
Members of the company’s staff who were not authorized to speak on the record said it was too focused on the “super premium” phone market and was oblivious to a slowdown in that segment, while ignoring the booming midrange and lower tiers in developing countries like India and Indonesia.
几名HTC员工称，公司太过关注“超高端”手机市场，而且对这块市场增长的放缓也无熟视无睹，同时还忽视了正在繁荣发展的印度和印度尼西亚等发展中国家的中低端市场。这几名员工没有公开对外发言的授权。
C.K. Lu, an analyst with Gartner, said, “HTC doesn’t know how to make a cheaper phone. It isn’t in their DNA. They don’t know how to do it by cost, or differentiate. They usually downgrade from their premium segment and that doesn’t work. It’s a very, very old-fashioned approach.”
高德纳的分析师吕俊宽(C.K. Lu)说，“HTC不知道如何制造一部较为廉价的手机。他们的基因里没有这个概念。不知道怎样靠降低成本或差异化来取胜，往往只会降低高端手机的级别，而这样做是没用的。这是一种非常、非常过时的做法。”
Mr. Chou, who joined HTC in 1997 and has led the company for a decade, is viewed as a workaholic design guru who worships at the temple of innovation and quality. His critics say he is aloof and autocratic and does not realize that a great product will not fix sales, marketing and distribution problems.
周永明于1997年加入HTC，目前已经在公司掌门10年。他被视为推崇创新和质量的工作狂和设计专家。批评他的人说他冷峻而专横，而且并没有意识到，即便产品优秀，也无法弥补销售、营销和渠道方面的问题。
“The company is in trouble and Peter has to own that,” said Wong Teck Zhung, an analyst with the market research firm IDC. “The clock is ticking. If he can’t turn around the bottom line and morale this year, I would expect some change at the top.”
“公司陷入了困境，周永明应该对此负责，”市场调研企业国际数据公司(IDC)的分析师黄德俊(Wong Teck Zhung)说。“时间很紧迫。如果他今年无法扭转财务状况和公司士气，我认为公司的高层将会出现一些变动。”
Mr. Chou declined interview requests.
周永明拒绝了采访要求。
But Mr. Wong and others also caution that the company has no clear internal successor. Because of HTC’s top-heavy Taiwanese corporate culture, it would be extremely difficult to replace him with somebody from the outside.
然而，黄德俊等人也提醒道，公司并没有明确的内部接班人。由于HTC头重脚轻的台湾企业文化，从公司外部寻找接班人将会非常困难。
“They have got to keep the ship steady for now. If they change captain, it’s going to be one issue after another — an endless stream of them,” Mr. Wong said.
黄德俊说，“他们目前必须保持公司这艘大船的稳定。如果他们要换船长，问题就会一个接一个地出现，源源不绝。”
HTC hopes that the release last month of HTC One on the U.S. carrier Verizon and the introduction of its midrange phone, the One Mini, will help improve sales.
HTC希望，中端手机One Mini的推出，以及上个月与美国运营商威瑞森(Verizon)合作发行的HTC One，将会对公司的销售业绩有所帮助。
“They are stuck in quicksand. They think the launch of the flexi models will get them out. But the market is sucking them back in. They won’t get back to the heights of 2010 and 2011,” Mr. Wong said.
“他们已经身陷流沙之中。他们以为发布几款不同的系列产品就能拯救公司。但在市场中他们节节败退。他们再也无法回到2010年和2011年的巅峰时刻了，”黄德俊说。
Staff members dismissed recent reports that the company was looking to merge with another company and played down speculation that it was ripe for a hostile takeover by Chinese vendors like the surging Lenovo Group.
HTC员工否认了最近出现的公司想与其他企业合并的说法，并且还对一些揣测进行了淡化。有人猜想，HTC已经做好了准备，打算接受联想等正在蓬勃发展的大陆公司的恶意收购。
Lenovo, which already owns IBM’s computer business, increased smartphone sales 144 percent year-over-year, according to Gartner, but it relies heavily on the domestic Chinese market.
联想已经拥有了IBM的电脑业务。高德纳的数据显示，联想的智能手机销量同比增长了144%，但是它非常依赖大陆市场。
Ms. Wang has repeatedly said the company is not for sale.
王雪红反复表示不会出售公司。
HTC, which had a market capitalization of $4.4 billion in late August, announced a buyback of 15 million shares that month. The buyback represents about 1.8 percent of its outstanding stock.
8月末，HTC的市值为44亿美元。公司当月还宣布要回购1500万股股份，在公司已发行的股票中占了约1.8%。
“The markets are not here to forgive us,” said Mr. Ho, the chief marketing officer. “Investors want profits and we are being punished for that. Consumers and operators are not messed with. They will remember you forever.”
“市场将不会高抬贵手，”首席营销官何永生说，“投资者希望能获得利润，而我们正在因此受罚。不要糊弄消费者和运营商，他们会永远记住你。”
“It is very challenging,” he added. “I won’t deny that. But management believes we have a good chance to come back. We aren’t short of cash and we have no intent to sell.”
“挑战性很大，”他还说，“我不否认这一点。但是管理层相信，我们仍然有很大的机会来扭转局面。我们并不缺钱，我们也不打算出售公司。”