Ken Takakura, who became a star playing outlaws and stoic heroes in scores of Japanese films, died on Nov. 10 in Tokyo. He was 83.   
高仓健因经常在日本电影中饰演不法之徒与坚忍英雄而成为影星，他于11月10日于东京逝世，享年83岁。
His office said he died at a hospital where he was being treated for lymphoma.
他的经纪公司说，他是在接受淋巴瘤治疗的医院中去世的。
Mr. Takakura, who because of his quiet, brooding screen presence was often compared to Clint Eastwood, made his screen debut in 1956 and rose to fame in the 1960s in crime films like “Abashiri Prison” (1965). Much of his appeal stemmed from his image as a hero fighting authority figures on behalf of the poor and weak.   
高仓健因其安静深沉的银幕形象，经常被拿来与克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)相比较。1956年他开始出演电影，20世纪60年代以《网走番外地》(1965)等犯罪影片而获得声誉。他在这些影片中被塑造为代表穷人和弱者反抗权威的英雄，他的魅力也主要来源于此。
He won a best-actor award at the Montreal World Film Festival for his performance in the 1999 film “Railroad Man.” He also appeared in a number of American movies, notably as a police inspector in Ridley Scott’s “Black Rain” (1989), with Michael Douglas, and — in one of his rare comic roles — as a coach in “Mr. Baseball” (1992), with Tom Selleck.
他因在1999年的电影《铁道员》中的表演而获得蒙特利尔世界电影节最佳男演员奖。他也曾在若干美国电影中亮相，其中最著名的是雷利·斯科特(Ridley Scott)的《黑雨》(Black Rain，1989)中的一个警探，该片由迈克尔·道格拉斯(Michael Douglas)主演。他还曾在《棒球先生》(Mr. Baseball)中出演一位教练，这是他为数不多的喜剧角色之一，该片由汤姆·赛莱克(Tom Selleck)主演。
Though he often played outlaws, Mr. Takakura said contemporary gangster movies did not interest him. “I like movies that pierce the human heart and linger with me,” he said in an interview that appeared on the media website Japan Subculture Research Center earlier this year.
尽管高仓健经常饰演不法之徒，但他说自己对现代黑帮片不感兴趣。“我喜欢那种能够穿透人类心灵、长久萦绕在我心头的电影，”他在采访中说，该采访今年年初刊登在日本亚文化研究中心的网站上。
Born Goichi Oda in Fukuoka, Japan, on Feb. 16, 1931, he did not set out to be an actor but was recruited by a major film production company while applying for a managerial position. In his last film, “Dearest” (2012), Mr. Takakura played a retired prison warden who embarks on a road trip to fulfill his dead wife’s last wish. His office said he was preparing for his next project while he was in the hospital.   
高仓健原名小田刚一(Goichi Oda)，1931年2月16日出生于日本福冈，他本来并没有打算成为演员，但去一家大型电影公司应聘管理职务时，被公司招募为演员。在他的最后一部电影《给亲爱的你》中，他饰演一个退休刑务官，为实现亡妻遗愿上路旅行。他的经纪公司说，他住院期间还在筹备自己的下一部电影。
Last year, when Mr. Takakura received one of Japan’s highest honors in the arts, the Order of Culture, at the Imperial Palace, he noted that he was best known for playing characters far removed from thse exalted precincts.
去年，高仓健在日本皇宫获得了日本艺术界的最高荣誉文化勋章，他指出，自己赖以成名的角色与这个高贵的地方相去甚远。