HONG KONG — Despite a glimmer of progress after talks in March between the United States and China over a potential technology trade war, little has changed, according to a letter sent by trade groups to Chinese leaders on Monday.
香港——多家贸易组织周一向中国领导者发送的一封信函显示，尽管在3月份美国和中国就潜在的科技贸易战举行会谈之后取得了一丝进展，但实际情况并未出现任何改善。
After a meeting of Treasury Secretary Jack Lew and top Chinese officials last month, there came word that China would delay implementing new rules designed to encourage banks in the country to buy crucial technology, like servers and mainframes, from Chinese companies. American trade groups that had lobbied against the rules were cautiously optimistic, calling the Chinese move to delay implementation a good first step.
美国财政部长雅克·卢(Jack Lew)和中国高层官员上个月会面之后，有消息称，中国将推迟实施旨在鼓励国内银行从中国公司购买关键技术的新规定，这些技术包括服务器和大型计算机。反对这些规定的美国贸易团体持谨慎的乐观态度，称中国此举是一个好的开始。
Their satisfaction was short-lived.
他们的满意没能持续多久。
“Chinese banks are continuing to implement new procurement practices favoring domestic products and services consistent with the guidelines, creating urgent challenges for companies whose products and services are affected by them,” said the letter from trade groups, which include the American Chamber of Commerce and organizations from Europe and Japan.
“中国的银行仍在依照这项指导方针进行国内产品和服务的采购，对有相关产品和服务的企业构成了迫在眉睫的挑战，”贸易团体的信中说。发信者包括美国商会(American Chamber of Commerce)和欧洲及日本的商会。
The letter was provided by a person who declined to be named because he was not authorized to release it to the media.
由于无权向媒体公布这些内容，提供这封信的人拒绝透露姓名。
The latest letter signaled a renewal of trade tensions over the new technology policies being rolled out by Beijing. It also showed that high-level talks between officials like Mr. Lew and Premier Li Keqiang of China had not proved to be as successful as the Obama administration might have hoped.
这封信意味着，北京推出的新科技政策所引发的贸易冲突仍在继续。它还显示出，卢和中国总理李克强的高层谈话并没有奥巴马政府希望的那样成功。
It was not clear whether the Chinese had backed off from assurances they gave to Mr. Lew or whether they did not view the assurances as formally binding. Regardless, in the letter, the industry groups called on China to put its assurances in writing.
目前尚不清楚中国是否放弃了对卢的承诺，也不清楚他们是否认为这些承诺是正式和具有约束性的。尽管如此，这些贸易团体在信中仍然呼吁中国把这些承诺落实到书面。
The letter urged “the Chinese leadership to officially suspend implementation of the guidelines through a written public notice, publicize them as a proposal, and initiate a formal public consultation consistent with China’s international obligations.”
这封信敦促“中国领导人通过一份公开的书面通知，正式停止实施这些指导方针，将它们作为提案加以公开，并履行中国的国际义务，启动一项公开征求意见的正式程序。”