CAIRO — Egypt’s authoritarian government has harassed and repressed the Muslim Brotherhood for most of its existence. But for the last three decades the authorities stopped short of touching the group’s revered leader, the supreme guide, who oversaw the country’s most effective social, political and religious organization despite its outlawed status.
开罗——穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)成立以来的多数时间都不断受到埃及威权政府的打击和压制。但在过去30年里，当局不再向穆兄会尊贵的总训导师下手。作为领袖，总训导师领导着这个国家效率最高的社会、政治及宗教组织，尽管它没有合法地位。
On Tuesday, the new government installed by Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi provided the latest signal that it was breaking the old rules. Security forces armed with automatic rifles hunted down even the supreme guide, Mohamed Badie, 70, in a nondescript apartment where he had taken refuge, and then provided footage of the arrest to a friendly satellite network.
周二，由阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西上将(Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)推上台的新政府再次发出信号，它要打破旧的规则。配有自动步枪的安全部队追击穆兄会成员，甚至连它的总训导师、70岁的穆罕默德·巴迪耶(Mohamed Badie)也不放过。他们从巴迪耶藏身的一个普通公寓内将其逮捕，之后将逮捕录像交给一个支持塞西的电视网。
It was the capstone of a sweeping campaign of arrests and shootings that has damaged the Brotherhood’s core organization more than any crackdown in eight decades, sending the group into a confused retreat deeper underground than ever before.
这让大规模的逮捕与射杀行动达到高潮，而对穆兄会核心组织的破坏程度大于80年来的所有镇压行动，致使该组织陷入混乱和溃退，比以往任何时候都更深地隐入地下。
“We came close to annihilation once under Nasser, but this is worse,” said Gehad el-Haddad, a Brotherhood official now on the run, referring to former President Gamal Abdel Nasser’s attempt to smash the group after he came to power in 1954. Communicating over the Internet to avoid surveillance, Mr. Haddad said Brotherhood members now “talk of “the good old days” under President Hosni Mubarak.
目前在逃的穆兄会官员格哈德·哈达德(Gehad el-Haddad)说起前总统贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒·纳赛尔(Gamal Abdel Nasser)1954年上台后努力摧毁该组织的种种行动，他说，“在纳赛尔统治时期，我们差点就被彻底摧毁，但这次情况更糟糕。”为了避免被监控，哈达德通过网络进行交流，他表示穆兄会成员现在都在谈论胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)时期的“美好旧时光”。
With the arrest of Mr. Badie, most of the Brotherhood’s top leaders are in prison, along with the former president, Mohamed Morsi. Many of its second- or third-tier leaders are dead or missing, Mr. Haddad said, and those still at large are living on the run. They change locations every 24 hours, avoid showing their faces at demonstrations or public places, and stay off cellphones for fear that they might be tracked.
随着巴迪耶被捕，大部分穆兄会高层领导都已入狱，其中还包括前总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)。哈达德表示，很多二、三线领导都已死亡或失踪，其他尚未被逮捕的都在逃亡之中。他们每24小时就换一个地方，避免在示威活动中或公共场所露脸，因为担心可能会被追踪，他们都不使用手机。
Many are consumed by the loss of those killed or missing in the crackdown, which left dead more than 1,000 Morsi supporters and the children of several Brotherhood leaders — including Mr. Badie, who lost his son. Communication to the group’s grass-roots network has been all but cut off, Brotherhood officials and local members said.
镇压行动中，有人被杀，有人失踪，逾1000名穆尔西支持者及一些穆兄会领导人的子女死亡，其中就有巴迪耶的儿子，很多穆兄会成员都因此受到沉重打击。穆兄会官员及地方成员表示，穆兄会领导人与基层组织的联络几乎全被切断。
“Asking about the structure of the organization now is like asking a dying man how his career is doing,” one Brotherhood leader said, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of arrest.
一名穆兄会领导人表示，“现在询问组织的结构就像是问一个将死的人他的事业进展如何。”因为担心被捕，这名领导人要求匿名。
Devastated by the assault, the group has backed off its vow of a “million martyrs,” ending its six-week campaign of organizing demonstrations and sit-ins against the military takeover that ousted its ally, Mr. Morsi. Instead, on Tuesday, the group began calling Morsi supporters to organize their own “decentralized” protests.
袭击严重打击了穆兄会，该组织已经放弃“百万殉难者”的誓言，结束了长达六周有组织的示威与静坐抗议活动，这些活动的目的是反对军方对政权的接管和对其盟友穆尔西的罢黜。周二，该组织开始号召穆尔西支持者组织自己的“分散”抗议活动。
More street demonstrations or sit-ins “are always an option if the coup leaders’ frenzy goes down,” Mr. Haddad said, but the Brotherhood “held the banner for 48 days” and “it is with the Egyptian people now.”
哈达德表示，“如果政变领导人的疯狂举动有所减少，总是可以再选择”进行更多的街头示威或静坐抗议活动，但穆兄会“举着这面大旗坚持了48天”，“现在已由埃及人民接手了。”
The Brotherhood’s retreat is a victory for General Sisi. At least for now, it appears that his new government’s brutal force has begun to take control of the streets of the capital. But in the long term, the Brotherhood retains deep roots in Egypt, especially in the countryside, and by forcing it back underground the military-backed government virtually eliminated any hope of fulfilling its public pledges to include it in the political process.
穆兄会的溃退对塞西上将来说是一个胜利。至少现在看来，塞西新政府残暴的武力已经开始控制住开罗的街头。但从长期来看，穆兄会在埃及仍有很深的根基，特别是在农村地区。通过迫使穆兄会转入地下，军方支持的政府实质上消除了任何将穆兄会纳入政治进程的希望，虽然它曾公开发誓会做到这点。
It has also foreclosed the chance to use the Brotherhood’s more pragmatic leadership to channel and control the broader and more fractious Islamist movement, as Mr. Mubarak once did. And it risks further alienating a generation of Islamists, or driving some to violence.
新政府也排除了利用穆兄会中更务实领导人的机会，就像穆巴拉克曾做的那样，它本可借助他们在更大范围内引导和控制难以驯服的伊斯兰主义运动。这也有可能令它进一步疏远一代伊斯兰主义者，或令其中的一些人走向暴力。
It was in Egyptian jails during earlier crackdowns, historians say, that Brotherhood members disillusioned with its nonviolent politics nurtured the ideology that now guides Al Qaeda.
历史学家们说，在早期的打压过程中，关在埃及监狱里的穆兄会成员对非暴力的政治纲领彻底幻灭，正是在这样的环境中，滋生出的那些理念如今正指导着基地组织(Al Qaeda)的行动。
Some in the Brotherhood suggest that by taking out the insular conservatives who came of age in those earlier crackdowns, the crisis could begin a transition to a younger and more moderate generation. The crisis “is creating a new tier of youth leaders,” Mr. Haddad argued. “It happened at Rabaa,” the six-week sit in that some described as a kind of Islamist Woodstock before the police burned it down.
穆兄会内的一些人宣称，扫除那些在早期打压中成长起来的、狭隘的保守主义者后，这场危机可能会带来一个转变，由更温和的年轻一代来主导穆兄会。这场危机“正在催生一群年轻的领导人”，哈达德表示。“这出现在拉比亚，”这场为期六周的静坐示威被一些人称为伊斯兰主义者的伍德斯托克(Woodstock)，后被警察用暴力驱散。
But as the Brotherhood scrambled Tuesday to choose a new leadership, the role of supreme guide automatically passed by seniority to Mahmoud Ezzat, a veteran of the group known as its “iron man” for his conservative ideology and intolerance of dissent. He was in hiding on Tuesday, and Brotherhood officials declined to disclose the names of other new leaders.
周二，穆兄会匆忙选择新领导人，总训导师一职按照资历已自动移交给马哈茂德·伊扎特(Mahmoud Ezzat)，他是穆兄会的资深成员，因其保守的理念和不容异见的态度而被称为“铁人”。周二，他藏身在某处，穆兄会的官员拒绝透露其他新领导人的名字。
The Brotherhood has often turned inward and squelched dissent in times of crisis, and Mr. Ezzat’s elevation was an early indication that the crackdown could “push the group into the control of the hard-liners” instead of younger reformers, said Khalil al-Anani, a scholar of the Brotherhood at the Washington-based Middle East Institute who is now in Cairo.
位于华盛顿的中东研究所(Middle East Institute)研究穆兄会的学者哈利勒·阿纳尼(Khalil al-Anani)认为，穆兄会常常会在危急时分进行内部整饬，压制异见，而伊扎特的上升更初步显示出，军方的打击会“推动这一组织落入强硬派的控制中”，而不是年轻的改革派。阿纳尼目前就在开罗。
The new government’s drive to suppress the Islamists appeared to gain momentum on Tuesday. State news media reported that the government was bringing back a Mubarak-era constitutional provision barring political parties based on religion. That potentially would outlaw Islamist parties, including the Brotherhood’s political arm — the biggest vote-getter in recent elections.
周二，新政府打压伊斯兰主义者的种种努力看似获得了新的动力。国有新闻媒体报道，政府正在恢复穆巴拉克时期的一条宪法条款，以禁止任何基于宗教的政党。这种做法很有可能会从法律上彻底禁止伊斯兰派政党的存在，包括穆兄会的政党分支——他们在新近的选举中收获了最多的选票。
The government also began investigating charges, filed by a law professor, against Mohamed ElBaradei, the liberal former diplomat who resigned as interim vice president last week in protest against the mass shootings.
政府也开始对一些指控展开调查。一名法律学教授起诉了自由派的前外交官穆罕默德·巴拉迪(Mohamed ElBaradei)。上周，他辞去临时副总统一职，以抗议大规模枪击。
The charges of “betraying the public trust” would carry only a small penalty, and Mr. ElBaradei had left for a home in Vienna. But along with a stream of state-media attacks against him, the case sent a signal that the government would prefer he stayed in Vienna and was a warning to other dissidents as well.
“辜负公众信任”的指控充其量也只会面临微不足道的惩罚，而巴拉迪也已返回他在维也纳的家中。这起诉讼除了引发大量国有媒体对他的攻击，还释放出一个信号，政府宁愿他留在维也纳，与此同时，这也是针对其他异见人士的一个警告。