Yani Tseng hopes a return to the Royal Birkdale Golf Club this week for the Women’s British Open will be just what she needs to rekindle some fire in her game.
曾雅妮(Yani Tseng)希望本周重回皇家伯克戴尔高尔夫俱乐部(Royal Birkdale Golf Club)，参加英国女子公开赛(Women’s British Open)。这位25岁的台湾姑娘要想重新做到在球场上所向披靡，正需要经历一场这样的比赛。
Tseng, a 25-year-old from Taiwan, won the British Open in 2010 at Royal Birkdale and defended the title the next year at Carnoustie in Scotland.
曾雅妮2010年在皇家伯克戴尔球场赢得了英国公开赛冠军，第二年又在苏格兰卡努斯提球场(Carnoustie)成功卫冕。
But the momentum she experienced in 2010 and 2011, when she rose to No. 1 in the world, has since slammed to a halt. Tseng enters the L.P.G.A. Tour’s third major championship this week ranked No. 48 in the world. She has had two top-10 finishes this year, but she has also missed four tournament cuts, including one at the Kraft Nabisco Championship, a major that she won in 2010.
她在2010年和2011年成为世界第一时可谓意气风发，在那之后却又归于平凡。曾雅妮本周跻身女子职业高尔夫球协会(LPGA)巡回赛中的第三场大满贯赛事时，全球排名仅为第48位。今年她在两场赛事中得分进入前十，但也在四场锦标赛中未能晋级，包括她曾在2010年夺冠的纳贝斯克锦标赛(Kraft Nabisco Championship)。
After 15 L.P.G.A. victories in seven seasons, career earnings of nearly $10 million and a streak of 109 weeks with the No. 1 ranking, Tseng told Golfweek magazine in December that for six months she had avoided returning to Taiwan because she did not have an answer to the constant question of why she had not played well.
经历过七个赛季在15场LPGA赛事中获胜、赢得近1000万美元奖金、连续109周高居排名榜首之后，曾雅妮去年12月告诉《高尔夫周刊》(Golfweek)，她有半年不愿意回到台湾，因为她不想总是回答一个挥之不去的问题：为什么她最近打得不好？
She acknowledged that her struggles prompted new questions, and when her confidence suffered because of her play, she started hearing criticism for the first time.
她承认自己糟糕的表现又引起了新的问题。当球场成绩不好导致自信受挫之时，她开始听到了批评的声音。
“I used to not listen so much,” she said. “But when I struggle, I listen more.”
“我过去不怎么去听这些，”她说，“但是表现不好时，我会更多地去聆听。”
Tseng’s slide was magnified by the contrast with those stellar seasons in 2010 and 2011, when she was twice named the L.P.G.A. player of the year. She won 10 tournaments during that span, including four major championships, and held the tour’s low scoring average (69.66) in 2011.
与2010年和2011年赛季中如日中天的表现相比，曾雅妮成绩的下滑显得尤为剧烈。当年，她曾两度获得LPGA年度最佳球员殊荣。那段时间里，她赢得了10项赛事，其中包括四项大满贯锦标赛，并且在2011年一直保持着巡回赛的最低平均杆纪录（69.66杆）。
Tseng won three times and recorded 11 top-10 finishes in 2012 and was fourth on the L.P.G.A.’s season money list.
2012年，曾雅妮赢得了三场赛事，在11场赛事中跻身前十，并且在LPGA奖金榜中排名第四。
She started the 2013 season with a runner-up finish at the L.P.G.A.’s first tournament, in Australia, and a tie for third the following week at the Honda L.P.G.A. Thailand. She could not have predicted the struggle that would follow.
2013年赛季开始时，在澳大利亚，她在LPGA的第一场锦标赛中夺得亚军，接下来一周又在本田LPGA泰国赛中取得并列第三成绩。但她恐怕没有料到接下来的艰难。
Tseng went on to miss six tournament cuts last year, including those at the British Open and two other majors, and finished outside the top 25 in 10 events. She had only four top-10 finishes and recorded her first winless season since 2008, her rookie year. She fell out of the top ranking in March and was 34th by the end of 2013.
之后在2013年，曾雅妮在六场锦标赛中未能晋级，包括英国公开赛和另外两项大满贯赛事，并在10场赛事中位列25名之后。她只在四场比赛中跻身前十，度过了新秀年2008年以来首个毫无胜绩的赛季。3月她跌出了排名榜顶部，到2013年年底，更是落至34位。
“Some players have a lot of added pressure, whether they feel they are carrying the tour or carrying their countries on their shoulders,” said Mike Whan, the L.P.G.A. commissioner. “It’s a tough game and it becomes even harder when you feel like you are carrying around more than your clubs.”
“一些球员会产生很多附加的压力，无论是感觉自己背负着赢得比赛的负担，还是肩头扛着国家荣誉的负担，”LPGA专员麦克·万恩(Mike Whan)说。“比赛本来就很艰难，如果身上除了球杆，还要背负别的东西，就会更难。”
He added, “Yani is incredibly talented, and I’m sure when she finally lets go and realizes that the only person she needs to please on the golf course is herself, it will become easier.”
他还说，“曾雅妮拥有令人难以置信的才能，我敢肯定她最终能放下包袱，认识到她在球场上除了自己之外，不需要取悦其他任何人。那样就会轻松很多。”
A particularly difficult result came when Tseng tied for 40th in October at the Sunrise L.P.G.A. Taiwan Championship. It was her long-awaited return home, but it became a difficult visit for a player who is regularly treated like a rock star in Taiwan. This time, she was as far away from the trophy as she had ever been.
曾雅妮在扬升LPGA台湾赛(Sunrise L.P.G.A. Taiwan Championship)中排名并列40位，这个成绩十分糟糕。这场众人期待已久的赛事本来应该是荣归故里，然而对于在台湾常常被当作巨星的曾雅妮，却变成了难堪的旅程。这一次，她离奖杯的距离，前所未有地远。
Tseng also had surgery for a hernia shortly after the tournament in Taiwan. She spent the rest of the year healing, physically and mentally.
在台湾赛之后不久，曾雅妮也做了一个疝气手术。这一年余下的时间，她都用来休养，平复生理和心理的创伤。
She turned for advice to the player she respects the most, Annika Sorenstam. Tseng bought Sorenstam’s former home in Orlando, Fla., a few years ago.
她向自己最敬重的球手安妮卡·索伦斯坦(Annika Sorenstam)寻求建议。曾雅妮几年前买下了索伦斯坦在佛罗里达州奥兰多的旧居。
“She says everybody goes through this and she told me not to worry,” Tseng said. “She says I haven’t played my best yet, and she said I can learn from this.”
“她告诉我每个人都会经历这种时期，还让我不要担心，”曾雅妮说。“她说，我还没有打出自己的最佳表现，还说我可以从这段时间里学到东西。”
Tseng also plays friendly practice rounds at home in Orlando with fourth-ranked Suzann Pettersen, who lives nearby. Tseng still holds her own against Pettersen in money games, and Pettersen reminds Tseng to just go play golf and stop worrying about anyone’s expectations, including her own.
曾雅妮还在奥兰多的家中与排名第四的苏珊·彼特森(Suzann Pettersen)打过友好的练习赛，彼特森也住在附近。曾雅妮在正式赛事中仍然能与彼特森抗衡，而彼特森也叮嘱她，只要专心打球就好，不要再担心任何人的期待，包括自己的期待。
Tseng acknowledged that being the top-ranked player in the world was stressful, but it is where she wants to be again soon.
曾雅妮承认，成为世界排名第一的球员压力会很大，但她仍然希望很快回到那个位置。
“I’m still young and I have a long career to go,” she said last year. “I’m not retired yet. I want to be world No. 1 again.”
“我还年轻，还有很长的职业生涯要走，”她去年说。“我还没有退役，也想再次成为世界第一。”