BOLLIKUNTA, India — Latha Reddy Musukula was making tea on a recent morning when she spotted the money lenders walking down the dirt path toward her house. They came in a phalanx of 15 men, by her estimate. She knew their faces, because they had walked down the path before.
印度博利昆特——最近的一个上午，莱瑟·雷迪·穆苏库拉(Latha Reddy Musukula)泡茶时看到债主们正走在通往她家的土路上走着。据她估计，他们共有15人。她认得他们的脸，因为他们之前曾来过这里。
After each visit, her husband, a farmer named Veera Reddy, sank deeper into silence, frozen by some terror he would not explain. Three times he cut his wrists. He tied a noose to a tree, relenting when the family surrounded him, weeping. In the end he waited until Ms. Musukula stepped out, and then he hanged himself from a pipe supporting their roof, leaving a careful list of each debt he owed to each money lender. She learned the full sum then: 400,000 rupees, or $6,430.
每次债主走后，她丈夫——名叫维拉·雷迪(Veera Reddy)的农民便陷入更深的沉默当中，被一种他不愿意解释的恐惧包围。他曾三次割腕自杀。他曾在树上系上套索，但看到哭着围在身边的家人，还是放弃了。最终，他趁穆苏库拉外出时，利用支撑屋顶的管架上吊自杀，留下了一份事无巨细的清单，列出了欠每一位债主的债务。这时她才得知债务总额为40万卢比（约合4万元人民币）。
A current of dread runs through this farmland, where women in jewel-colored saris bend their backs over watery terraces of rice. In Andhra Pradesh, the southern state where Ms. Musukula lives, the suicide rate among farmers is nearly three times the national average; since 1995, the number of suicides by India’s farmers has passed 290,000, according to the national crime records bureau, though the statistics do not specify the reason for the act.
一股恐惧情绪笼罩着这片农田，身穿色彩艳丽的纱丽的女人在稻田中弯身耕种。在南部的安得拉邦，也就是穆苏库拉居住的地方，农民的自杀率大约是全国平均水平的三倍。据国家犯罪统计局透露，自1995年以来，印度自杀的农民人数超过了29万，但这些数据没有具体说明自杀的原因。
India’s small farmers, once the country’s economic backbone and most reliable vote bank, are increasingly being left behind. With global competition and rising costs cutting into their lean profits, their ranks are dwindling, as is their contribution to the gross domestic product. If rural voters once made their plight into front-page news around election time, this year the large parties are jockeying for the votes of the urban middle class, and the farmers’ voices are all but silent.
印度的小农户曾是该国的经济支柱和最可靠的选民，但这些人现在越来越落后。随着全球竞争及不断上涨的成本令本已微薄的利润愈发减少，农民的地位不断下降，他们对国内生产总值的贡献也在减少。农民的困境一度是选举期间的头版新闻，但在今年，大党在施展手段争取获得城市中产阶级的选票，农民的声音已经听不到。
Even death is a stopgap solution, when farmers like Mr. Reddy take their own lives, their debts pass from husband to widow, from father to children. Ms. Musukula is now trying to scrape a living from the four acres that defeated her husband. Around her she sees a country transformed by economic growth, full of opportunities to break out of poverty, if only her son or daughter could grasp one.
实际上死亡只是权宜之计，像雷迪这样的农民自杀后，丈夫的债务会留给遗孀，父亲的债务会留给孩子。穆苏库拉现在正设法利用击垮她丈夫的那四英亩（约合1.6公顷）农田勉强维持生计。她看到经济发展给这个国家带来改变，到处都是摆脱贫困的机会，只要她的儿子或女儿能够抓住一个就好了。
But the trap that closed on her husband is tightening around her. Like nearly every one of her neighbors, she is locked into a bond with village money lenders — an intimate bond, and sometimes a menacing one. No sooner did they cut her husband’s body down than one of them was in her house, threatening to block the cremation unless she paid.
但她正被困在跟丈夫一样的陷阱里。就像周围的几乎所有人一样，她陷入了与村庄债主的纠缠当中，这是一种私人关系，有时非常危险。他们刚将他丈夫的尸体放下来，其中一个在场的人就威胁要阻止火化，除非她还钱。
Her appeals to officials for help have been met with indifference. Lately, her fear has been getting the better of her.
她向官员求助，但遭到漠视。后来，她被恐惧打败。
“Sure, they will pay, otherwise it would be as if someone has broken into our house and stolen our money,” said Sudhakar Ravula, a slight man who lives in a village about two miles away. He introduces himself as a fisherman, but, under questioning, fishes out a pair of gold-rimmed reading glasses and unfolds a promissory note signed by Veera Reddy.
苏达卡尔·拉武拉(Sudhakar Ravula)表示，“当然，他们会偿还，否则这就像是有人闯进了我们的住所，盗走了我们的钱。”身材瘦小的拉武拉住在大约两英里（约合3.22公里）外的村庄。他自称是渔夫，但在盘问之下，他掏出了一副金边眼镜，打开了一份由维拉·雷迪签名的本票。
Four years ago, he said, he used borrowed money to lend Mr. Reddy $800, at an annual interest rate of 24 percent. Reminded of Mr. Reddy’s suicide, Mr. Ravula looked impatient. “I always feel sad for the man,” he said, “but committing suicide is not the right way to go about it.”
他表示，四年前，他借给了雷迪800美元（约合4910元人民币），年利率为24%，这些钱本身也是他跟别人借的。当有人提到雷迪自杀时，拉武拉看起来有些不耐烦。“我为他感到难过，”他说，“但自杀不是处理这问题的正确方式。”
Stories of farmers committing suicide may prompt shudders in gatherings of sociologists, but the local officials have heard it all before. When market reforms were introduced in 1991, the state scaled down subsidies and import barriers fell, thrusting small farmers into an unforgiving global market. Farmers took on new risks, switching to commercial crops and expensive, genetically modified seeds, paying more to educate their children in the hopes they would land government jobs.
农民自杀的故事或许会让社会学家们不寒而栗，但当地官员们却早有耳闻。当1991年印度推行市场改革时，该邦缩减补贴，降低进口壁垒，将小农户推入了一个无情的全球市场。农民们承担新风险，转而种植经济作物和昂贵的转基因种子，他们为孩子的教育花费更多金钱，希望他们会进入政府工作。
They found themselves locked in a white-knuckle gamble, juggling ever-larger loans at exorbitant interest rates, always hoping a bumper harvest would allow them to clear their debts, so they could take out new ones. This pattern has left a trail of human wreckage.
他们发现自己陷入了一场惊险的赌博中，用高的离谱的利率借钱周转，总是希望一次丰收会让他们还清债务，如此一来，他们就可以获得新借款。这种模式产生了一系列人间悲剧。
On a recent afternoon, Ms. Musukula was one of 18 women waiting outside a pale-green government building. Nearly every woman carried a police report, identifying debt as the cause of a farmer’s suicide — a fact that should entitle them to a one-time payment of 150,000 rupees, to be split between the money lenders and the bereaved family, pledged by the state government around election time in 2004.
最近一天的下午，18名女性坐在一栋灰绿色政府大楼外，穆苏库拉就是其中一个。几乎每一名女性都带着一份警方报告，报告确认债务是导致一名农民自杀的原因。根据邦政府在2004年选举前后做出的承诺，靠这一事实，他们有权一次性获得15万卢比，分给债主和死者家属。
To receive it, they needed a designation from the district revenue officer. They had come to see one of the officer’s subordinates, a local revenue officer who might act as a gatekeeper.
要想拿到这笔钱，他们需要区税务官员做出指示。他们需要去见这名官员的一个下属：地方税务官，后者会进行审核。
They crowded into the back of his office and took a good look at him: P. Bhiksham, a middle-aged man in rimless glasses, a green towel tucked behind his back to soak up sweat. Mr. Bhiksham listened to two women recite the details of their husbands’ deaths, and then began to speak. The real problem, he said, was that their husbands drank too much.
她们挤到了地方税务官办公室的最里面，注视着他：P·比克舍穆(P. Bhiksham)。这名带着无框眼镜的中年男子背后塞了一块绿毛巾，用来吸汗。比克舍穆听两个女人讲述着她们的丈夫死亡的细节，然后开始说话。他表示，真正的问题是她们的丈夫喝多了。
The women listened silently and filed out. They were disappointed by what Mr. Bhiksham had said, but not surprised. Many local officials blame farmers for mismanaging their finances.
女人们默默地听着，陆续离开办公室。比克舍穆的话让她们感到非常失望，但并不吃惊。很多地方官员责怪农民们对财务管理不善。
“The family will always tell you it’s a farmer suicide,” said G. Satyanarayana, the chief inspector at the precinct that had registered Veera Reddy’s suicide in 2012. 
该区总督察G·萨蒂亚纳拉亚纳(G. Satyanarayana)表示，“家属们总是会告诉你这是农民自杀案件。”维拉·雷迪2012年自杀时，萨蒂亚纳拉亚纳曾将案件记录在案。
As for money lenders harassing widows after a suicide, he said the police had never received any reports of this happening, so were powerless to take any action. Probably, he said, villagers do not go to police about money lenders because they are afraid they will need a loan in the future.
对于在丈夫自杀后恐吓遗孀的债主，他表示，警方从未收到过相关报案，因此他们无能为力，无法采取行动。他表示，村民们不向警方报告债主们的行为，可能是因为他们担心未来还需要借债。
“Nobody approaches the police,” he said. “You always wish they would come and complain.”
“没人向警察求助，”他说，“我们一直很希望他们过来报案。”
Latha Musukula is beginning to be undone by fear. On the morning when the money lenders had come to her doorstep, she tried to do what her husband had always done — chitchat, put them off for a month or two. But then one of the money lenders described the house he planned to build on Ms. Musukula’s land, and addressed her as “whore.”
莱瑟·穆苏库拉已经开始因为恐惧而感到烦乱。债主来家里要钱的那天上午，她努力效仿丈夫的做法，先是聊天，再将期限拖延一两个月。但后来，其中一个债主称，他计划在穆苏库拉的田地里建房子，还说她是“婊子”。
Ms. Musukula was so thrown off balance that she repeated the words the money lender asked her to say, promising to repay the whole amount by April. She had no idea how she was going to do it.
穆苏库拉感到非常不安，重复着债主们让她说的话，承诺在4月之前偿还所有债务。但她不知道怎么才能还得起债。