BRUSSELS — On what normally would be a bustling Monday, empty streets and an eerie silence attested to the reality that this capital city, the heart of the European Union, had been paralyzed by a terrorist cell answering to the leaders of the Islamic State.
布鲁塞尔——在本该十分繁忙的周一，街道上却空空荡荡，有一种怪异的寂静告诉我们，比利时首都、欧盟的心脏被听令于伊斯兰国(Islamic State)领导人的一个恐怖团伙带来的威胁所笼罩，陷入瘫痪状态。
As universities, shopping malls, museums, food markets, the subway system and even a nursery school shut their doors, the city remained jittery after a number of false alarms involving hotels and even City Hall, which was closed on Monday.
大学、购物中心、博物馆、食品市场、地铁系统，乃至一所幼儿园全都大门紧闭。在一系列有关酒店甚至还有市政厅的假警报解除之后，整座城市依然紧张不安。市政厅亦于周一关闭。
The central square, known as the Grand Place or Grote Markt, was all but deserted, except for a few tourists ambling around a giant Christmas tree. Soldiers patrolled an area normally thronged with shoppers, and armored personnel carriers rolled over cobble-stoned streets usually choked with cars.
名为大广场（Grand Place或Grote Markt)的城市中心广场，也几近空空如也，只有几名游客在一棵巨大的圣诞树附近徘徊。军人在一个往往会挤满购物者的区域巡逻，运兵装甲车行驶在通常会出现堵塞的石路上。
The subways and schools are set to reopen on Wednesday, Prime Minister Charles Michel said in a news conference, but in other respects, “the situation remains the same as yesterday.” Of the investigation he said only that the police “are working hard,” and he called on the public to “remain vigilant.”
比利时首相夏尔·米歇尔(Charles Michel)在一场新闻发布会上表示，地铁和学校会在周三重开，但在其他方面，“情况还和昨天一样。”至于调查进展，他仅表示警方“还在努力推进”，并呼吁公众“继续保持警惕”。
For many people, it was one thing to be locked down on a weekend, but quite another on a weekday when jobs and chores were supposed to be done. “We feel as if we're taken hostage by the security situation because we've had to change our habits, because everything's closed,” said Deborah Mix, who manages a Bruyerre chocolate shop. “I can't go do my shopping. I need to be careful when I leave the house. At the same time I feel like the security measures are adding to this climate of fear.”
对很多人而言，在周末进行封锁倒还好说，但是在工作日需要处理工作和杂务的时候，情况就不一样了。“感觉好像被安全局势劫持了，不得不改变自己的习惯，因为所有的地方都关门了，”经营着一家布罗耶(Bruyerre)巧克力店的德博拉·米克斯(Deborah Mix)说。“我不能去买东西。离开房子的时候，要特别小心。同时我感觉，这些安全措施又进一步加重了担忧的气氛。”
In the third day of high alert, authorities continued their manhunt for, Salah Abdeslam, a participant in the Paris terrorist attacks. While the suspect remained at large, the police seized 26,000 euros ($27,600) and arrested five people, in addition to the 16 who were detained on Sunday.
在进入高度警戒状态的第三天，比利时当局还在继续追捕参与巴黎恐怖袭击的嫌疑人萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)。目前此人依然逍遥法外，但警方查获了2.6万欧元（约合17.7万元人民币）赃款，在周日拘捕的16人之外，又逮捕了五人。
Later Monday the Federal Prosecutor's Office said that a judge had placed in custody one of the 16 on charges of participating in the terrorist attack in Paris and had released the others. Two of the five arrested Monday have been released, the prosecutor said, while the judge will decide on the others Tuesday.
周一晚些时候，联邦检察部门表示，周日拘捕的16人中，有一人已被法官以参与巴黎恐怖袭击的指控羁押，其余15人获释。检方还表示，周一逮捕的五名嫌疑人有两人已被释放，法官将在周二对其余三人做出决定。