Can exercise that is intense also be fun?
激烈的运动也会有趣吗?
Researchers in Denmark recently began delving into that issue and in the process developed a new approach to intense interval training that could appeal even to those of us who, until now, have been disinclined to push ourselves during exercise.
丹麦的研究人员最近开始深入探讨这个问题，并在研究过程中发明了一种进行高强度间歇训练的新方法。就连我们当中那些到目前为止不愿在运动期间逼迫自己的人，也可能会受到这种方法的吸引。
High-intensity exercise, usually in the form of short bursts of very arduous intervals interspersed with rest, has much to recommend it. Many studies have shown that even a few minutes of these intervals can substantially improve health and cardiovascular fitness.
高强度运动通常是短时间内的爆发性运动，中间穿插休息。这种锻炼方式有很多可取之处。很多研究显示，即便是几分钟的间歇运动也能在很大程度上改善健康和心血管功能。
But high-intensity interval workouts have a drawback that is seldom acknowledged. Many people don’t like them and soon abandon the program.
不过，高强度间歇运动有一个鲜为人承认的缺点：很多人不喜欢这种运动，很快就会放弃。
In a telling study published last year, researchers in New Zealand asked overweight, out-of-shape adults to complete three months of high-intensity interval training, using one of two common types of training programs. One consisted of either four minutes of fast jogging, a rest, and four more minutes of strenuous jogging. The other consisted of 30 seconds of all-out effort, followed by rest, and was repeated three times.
在去年发表的一篇很能说明问题的论文中，新西兰的研究人员请一些身材走形的超重成年人完成三个月的高强度间歇训练，在两种常见训练法中选择一个。其中一个包括四分钟的快跑，休息，然后进行四分钟的高强度跑。另一项包括30秒的全力运动，然后休息，接下来重复三遍。
Some of the exercisers’ sessions were supervised, and some were supposed to be done on their own.
一些人的运动过程受到监督，另一些人则自己完成训练。
Both programs would have been expected to round the volunteer into much better shape.
研究者以为，这两个运动方法都会极大地改善志愿者的身体状况。
They didn’t. Few of the participants became significantly more fit, especially in the 30-second hard interval group. The probable reason, the researchers speculate, was that most of the participants had quit doing most or all of their assigned exercise early on in the study.
然而，实际情况并非如此。几乎没有参与者的体能得到显著改善，特别是进行30秒强烈间歇运动的小组。研究人员推测，原因很可能在于，大多数参与者很早就放弃研究中指定的大部分或所有运动了。
This finding and others like it troubled Jens Bangsbo, a professor of physiology at the University of Copenhagen in Denmark, who studies high-intensity interval training. In studies at his lab, repeated hard intervals had almost invariably made people fitter, faster and healthier.
这篇论文及其他一些类似研究让丹麦哥本哈根大学(University of Copenhagen)研究高强度间歇训练的生理学教授延斯·邦斯博(Jens Bangsbo)感到困惑。在他的实验室开展的研究中，反复的高强度间歇运动几乎总是会使人的体能变得更好，速度更快，身体更健康。
But those studies typically had involved highly motivated athletes riding high-tech stationary bicycles and had been supervised by the scientists, who personally had cajoled the participants to complete each interval.
但是，这类研究通常是让那些积极性较高的运动员骑高科技健身运动车，而且还有科学家进行监督，亲自劝说参与者完成每一项间歇运动。
Those were hardly real-world circumstances, Dr. Bangsbo realized.
邦斯博认识到，这离现实状况相去甚远。
So he and his colleagues began to wonder if there might be more practical and palatable approaches to high-intensity interval training.
因此，他和同事们开始考虑是否可能有更加实用、更受人欢迎的方式来进行高强度间歇训练。
“We wanted to create a workout that could be employed by everyone, from the nonexperienced person to the elite athlete,” Dr. Bangsbo said.
“我们希望创造一种所有人都能做的运动，从没经验的新手到优秀的运动员，”邦斯博说。
After some trial and error, they came up with a candidate routine and named it 10-20-30 training.
在经过一些尝试和失败后，他们想出了一种候选的锻炼套路，并称之为10-20-30训练法。
It has become my favorite interval program.
结果，它成为了我最喜欢的间歇运动方法。
The essentials of 10-20-30 training are simple. Run, ride or perhaps row on a rowing machine gently for 30 seconds, accelerate to a moderate pace for 20 seconds, then sprint as hard as you can for 10 seconds. (It should be called 30-20-10 training, obviously, but that is not as catchy.) Repeat.
10-20-30训练计划的基本要素非常简单。跑、骑或者在划船健身器上轻微运动30秒，调整到中等速度运动20秒，然后拼尽全力冲刺10秒。（这明显应该被称为30-20-10训练计划，但这不够吸引人。）接下来就是重复运动。
The enticements of this particular program are many. It is easy to remember and low-tech, requiring no gym membership, heart rate monitor, or flow chart, as some complicated interval programs seem to demand. You don’t even need a stopwatch to monitor the 30-, 20-, and 10-second time changes. You can, like me, count to yourself, which seems to make the intervals pass quickly.
这种运动法的吸引力非常大。很容易记住，而且与一些复杂的间歇运动计划不同，不需要高科技、健身会员卡、心率监测器，或者什么流程图。甚至不需要秒表监测30秒、20秒、10秒的转换时间。你可以像我一样，自己数，而这种做法似乎让人感觉间歇运动很快就做完了。
Perhaps best of all, the grueling, all-out portion of the workout lasts for only 10 seconds, which is far more manageable for most of us than 30 seconds or 4 minutes.
最好的一点或许是，那种令人精疲力尽的全力运动只持续10秒，与30秒或4分钟相比，做到这一点要容易得多。
But of course the program must be effective if scientists are to recommend it. So for a study published in December in The Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports, Dr. Bangsbo and his colleagues set out to test the routine with a large group of average exercisers.
不过，如果科学家想要进行推荐的话，那么这种运动法肯定要有效。在《斯堪的纳维亚医学与运动科学期刊》(The Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports)去年12月刊登的一篇论文中，邦斯博和同事开始在一大群普通锻炼者身上对这种运动法进行测试。
Approaching running clubs throughout Denmark, the scientists found 132 mostly middle-aged, recreational runners who agreed to substitute 10-20-30 training for two of their usual weekly workouts.
科学家们联系了丹麦各地的跑步俱乐部，找到了132名业余的跑步爱好者。他们同意将一周中的两个平常锻炼时段换成10-20-30训练法，其中大部分是中年人。
As a result, their weekly mileage fell by about half.
因此，他们每周的运动里程减少了将近一半。
The scientists also recruited 28 runners to serve as controls and continue their normal training.
科学家们还招募了28名跑步者充当对照组，而他们继续平常的锻炼。
All of the runners underwent physiological testing at the start of the study, including a simulated 5K race.
所有跑步者都在研究开始时接受了生理测试，包括5000米模拟比赛。
Then the scientists turned the runners loose to continue with or abandon their training as they chose.
然后科学家们任凭参与者进行选择，继续或放弃训练。
After eight weeks, almost all of the runners in the 10-20-30 group were still following the program. And when they repeated their 5K runs, they had shaved an average of 38 seconds from their times. Most also had lower blood pressure and other markers of improved health.
八周之后，10-20-30训练组的几乎所有参与者仍在坚持这项计划。他们再跑5000米的时候，所用时间平均缩短了38秒。大部分人的血压有所下降，其它指标也显示他们的健康状况有所改善。
There were no changes among the runners in the control group.
对照组的情况没有什么改变。
Of course, any regular interval training should improve someone’s athletic endurance and health if it replaces slower training, which is why serious athletes incorporate interval sessions into their regimens.
当然，只要用常规间歇训练替换缓慢训练，应该就会提高参与者的运动耐力和健康状况，因此正规运动员会将间歇运动加入常规强化训练中。
But in Dr. Bangsbo’s study, the 10-20-30 program not only allowed the runners to train less while growing faster, it seemed to make the workouts pleasurable.
不过，邦斯博的研究发现，10-20-30训练法不仅使得参与者通过较少的训练取得更快的进步，似乎还让运动变得令人愉快了。
“The running clubs in our study reported much improved social interactions between members” during the workouts, Dr. Bangsbo said, because when the fastest runners turned around after each set of five 10-20-30 sprints, as most did, they found themselves following the slower runners, who had the satisfaction of being in the lead, at least for the moment.
“参与我们研究的跑步俱乐部通报，成员”在运动期间的“社交互动得到很大改善，”邦斯博说。这是因为，大部分人要做五组10-20-30训练，每次最快跑完圈的人转弯后都会发现他们在速度较慢的人身后，让这些人有了一种跑在最前面的满足感，哪怕是暂时的。
You can undertake the program solo, too, or, as I have, with dogs. They are likely to be enthusiasts. This is how they always have run.
你也可以单独进行训练，或者像我一样，在狗的陪伴下运动。狗狗们很可能会热衷这项运动。它们可一直都是这么跑的。
If you wish to try 10-20-30 training, Dr. Bangsbo recommends starting by replacing one or two of your normal weekly workouts with a 10-20-30 session.
如果你想尝试10-20-30训练法，邦斯博建议开始先将一周当中的一两个正常训练时段换成10-20-30。
Warm up with an easy jog (or pedaling or rowing), then ease into the intervals. The 30-second portion should feel relaxed; the next 20 seconds moderately hard; and the final 10 seconds a full gallop. “The aim is to cover as much distance as possible in those 10 seconds,” Dr. Bangsbo said.
先通过慢跑（骑自行车或划船）热身，然后逐步进行间歇运动。30秒的部分应该放松进行，接下来20秒适当加大强度，最后10秒全力冲刺。邦斯博表示，“要在这10秒钟里尽可能练出最远的距离。”
Do five of the 10-20-30 intervals in a row without pause, then rest for two minutes by standing or very slowly walking about. Repeat the five consecutive intervals one more time, cool down, and you are done. The whole session, minus warm-up and cool-down, will have lasted 12 minutes.
连续不断地做五组10-20-30训练，然后站着或很慢地走两分钟进行休息。接着再次重复五组运动，缓和下来，运动就结束了。减去热身和缓和运动的时间，整个过程持续12分钟。
If you are already in fine shape, Dr. Bangsbo said, add another set of the five uninterrupted intervals.
邦斯博表示，如果你的身体本已不错，可以再加五组不间断的间歇运动。
Rest the next day, he said, or very lightly exercise; don’t do two of the intense interval sessions in a row. Although a smaller percentage of runners in the 10-20-30 group sustained injuries than did runners in the control group in his study, “we recommend very slow progress.”
他说，第二天要休息，或做极少量的运动；不要连续两天做这种高强度间歇运动。虽然在他的研究项目中，与对照组的参与者相比，10-20-30训练小组中受伤人员较少，但“我们建议循序渐进。”