When summer turns to fall, the Silicon Valley gossip scene is usually tantalized by the next iPhone. But this year, it is Google’s secrets, not Apple’s, that have people abuzz.
每当夏去秋来之时，硅谷的热议焦点往往都由下一代iPhone左右。但这一年，令人们热烈讨论的是谷歌(Google)的秘密，而不是苹果(Apple)。
On Wednesday, reports from Google emerged about a love triangle involving Google’s co-founder, Sergey Brin, and Hugo Barra, an Android executive who announced the same day that he would leave the company for a rival phone maker in China.
周三，来自谷歌的消息为人们呈现出一个三角恋情，卷入其中的有谷歌的联合创始人谢尔盖·布林(Sergey Brin)，以及Android高管雨果·巴拉(Hugo Barra)，后者在当天宣布，他将离开该公司，投奔它的竞争对手、中国的一家手机制造商。
The tech blog AllThingsD reported Wednesday that Mr. Brin was separated from his wife, Anne Wojcicki, and dating a Google employee who was previously in a relationship with Mr. Barra.
科技博客AllThingsD在周三报道，布林已经与他的妻子安妮·沃西基(Anne Wojcicki)分居，并且正与一名曾与巴拉有染的前谷歌员工约会。
See why this is the talk of the valley?
明白为什么这会成为硅谷热议的话题了吧？
The news set off a burst of publicity in tech blogs and whispers among people in the industry.
这个消息在各科技博客上引起关注，并引发了业内人士的交头接耳。
Two people with knowledge of the relationships, who would speak only anonymously, confirmed that the couple had separated, and that Mr. Brin was involved with Mr. Barra’s ex. Google declined to comment on the personal lives of employees.
两位知晓这些关系的人以匿名身份接受采访，并确认这对夫妇已经分居，而且布林与巴拉的前女友有瓜葛。谷歌拒绝评论员工的私人生活。
Mr. Barra is a noticeable loss for Google because he was one of the most public faces of Android, often presenting new products onstage, most recently last month, when he introduced the new Nexus 7 tablet in San Francisco.
对谷歌来说，巴拉的离去显然是一个损失，因为他是Android公司最常公开露面的人物之一，常在台上展示新产品，最近的一次是在上个月，他在旧金山发布了新款Nexus 7平板电脑。
While he will continue to promote Android in his new job at the fast-expanding Chinese company Xiamoi, he is also working for a competitor of Motorola, the phone company owned by Google. The Android team has been in transition since Andy Rubin, its founder and former leader, stepped down in March.
不过，在他即将加入的发展迅速的中国公司小米，他将继续推广Android系统，这家公司也是谷歌旗下的手机企业摩托罗拉(Motorola)的竞争对手。自从其创始人和前主管(Andy Rubin)3月份辞职以来，Android团队一直处在动荡之中。
Mr. Brin and Ms. Wojcicki, who have two children, were married six years ago in a secretive wedding in the Bahamas. The swimsuit-clad couple invited guests to swim to a sandbar for the ceremony.
布林和沃西基有两个孩子，六年前，他们在巴哈马群岛举行了秘密婚礼。这对身着泳装的新人邀请客人们游到一座沙洲，在那里举行了仪式。
Their separation has other ties to Google’s business. Ms. Wojcicki, who was often spotted at Google events, is the chief executive and co-founder of 23andMe, the personal genetics company, in which Google has invested. She is also the sister of Susan Wojcicki, Google’s senior vice president for advertising, who met Google’s founders when she rented them her garage to start the company.
他们的分居还关系到谷歌的其他业务。沃西基经常出席谷歌的各种活动，她是个人基因技术公司23andMe的首席执行官和联合创始人，谷歌也投资了该公司。她还是分管谷歌广告业务的高级副总裁苏珊·沃西基(Susan Wojcicki)的妹妹，后者早年认识谷歌创始人时，把自己的车库租给他们开办了这家公司。
Should they divorce, the couple has a prenuptial agreement in which Mr. Brin retains the voting power he has through ownership of Google stock, according to a person briefed on the issue. Mr. Brin’s shares make up the bulk of his $23 billion fortune. They will continue their family charitable endeavors, the person said.
据一位知情人士称，这对夫妇有一个婚前协议，他们一旦离婚，布林将保留他通过持股谷歌获得的投票权。布林拥有的股票占据了他230亿美元（约合1400亿元人民币）财产中的大部分。此人称，他们两人还将继续其家庭慈善事业。
As for Google’s rules on an executive dating an employee, its code of conduct says that relationships between co-workers that create “an actual or apparent conflict of interest” can lead to re-assignment or termination. Mr. Brin currently oversees special projects at the Google X lab, including Google Glass.
至于谷歌对高管和员工约会的规定，它的行为准则中说道，同事之间的关系如果造成了“实际或显然的利益冲突”，那就可能导致工作职责的重新分配或合同的解除。布林目前负责谷歌X实验室(Google X)的特殊项目，其中包括谷歌眼镜(Google Glass)。