In the stiffest civil punishment ever imposed in the auto industry, federal regulators levied a penalty of up to $200 million on Takata, the maker of millions of faulty airbags, for failing to disclose the defect to regulators in a timely manner.
联邦监管机构向高田公司(Takata)开出了2亿美元罚单，创下汽车业史上最严厉的民事处罚纪录。这家日本供应商售出了数以百万计的问题气囊，未能及时向监管机构披露其缺陷。
Takata is being fined $70 million, and could face an additional $130 million penalty if it fails to abide by its consent order with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which includes the appointment of an independent safety monitor.
高田被罚款7000万美元，如果未能遵守与美国国家公路交通安全管理局(National Highway Traffic Safety Administration)签订的一份同意令，可能还会面临另外1.3亿美元的罚款。该同意令带有一项独立的安全监控约定。
As part of the agreement, Takata is required to phase out the manufacture and sale of inflaters that use phase-stabilized ammonium nitrate propellant.
作为协议的一部分，高田需要逐步停止使用了相稳定硝酸铵推进剂的充气装置的生产和销售。
The penalty was announced at a news conference on Tuesday by Anthony Foxx, the transportation secretary, and Mark R. Rosekind, administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. “Takata said it had isolated the problem. It said it had uncovered the mistakes that led to ruptures and it had pledged its products were safe,” Mr. Foxx said. “But we know that the ruptures have continued.”
本周二，美国运输部部长安东尼·福克斯(Anthony Foxx)和国家公路交通安全局局长马克·R·罗斯金德(Mark R. Rosekin)在一个新闻发布会上宣布了处罚高田的消息。“高田说它已经把问题隔离出来了，说它已经发现了导致破裂问题的原因，并承诺其产品是安全的，“福克斯说。“但我们知道，破裂问题仍然存在。”
“American drivers should not have to worry that a device designed to save their life might actually take it,” he said. Unless Takata can prove its airbags are safe or can show it has determined why its inflators are prone to rupture, Mr. Foxx said, Takata will be required to recall all of its ammonium nitrate inflators now on the roads.
“本来应该救命的设备可能会夺取人命，我们不应该让这样的事情困扰美国驾驶者，”他说。除非高田能证明其安全气囊是安全的，并证明它已经确定了充气装置容易破裂的原因，否则，福克斯说监管机构将要求高田召回其售出的所有硝酸铵充气装置。
“There are potentially millions more” vehicles that would need to be recalled, he said. The penalty comes as regulators have imposed a series of increasingly aggressive penalties against manufacturers that break auto safety laws. In January, Honda was given a $70 million penalty, in part for failing to report hundreds of death and injury claims to the government, as required by law. Last year, General Motors was penalized $35 million for not promptly reporting a defective ignition switch to regulators. In July, Fiat Chrysler agreed to pay as much as $105 million to the government for failing to complete 23 safety recalls covering more than 11 million vehicles.
他表示，“可能还有数百万辆”汽车需要召回。此次处罚的背景是监管机构对违反汽车安全法的制造商施加一系列严厉惩罚。今年1月，本田(Honda)被处以7000万美元的罚款，部分是因为该公司没有按照法律规定向政府报告数百起伤亡索赔。去年，通用汽车(General Motors)因为没有及时向监管机构报告点火开关存在缺陷而被处以3500万美元的罚款。今年6月，菲亚特克莱斯勒(Fiat Chrysler)同意向政府缴纳1.05亿美元的罚款，罚款原因是该公司未能完成涉及1100多万辆汽车的23宗安全召回行动。
The Takata penalty comes during the widespread recall of airbags that can explode and shoot metal fragments at passengers. Since 2008, 12 automakers have recalled more than 19 million vehicles with the defective airbags in the United States. Millions more have been recalled worldwide, and the supplier has been struggling to produce replacement parts quickly for all of the affected cars.
处罚的决定公布之时，高田正在大规模召回可能猛然迸裂，导致金属碎片飞向乘客的安全气囊。自2008年以来，12家汽车生产商在美国召回了逾1900万辆气囊存在缺陷的汽车。世界范围内还有数百万辆汽车被召回，供应商在努力快速生产所有受影响车辆的替换部件。