For months, Wu Yongning had climbed towers and buildings high above the streets of cities in China, turning a camera on himself as he teetered on ledges or clutched an antenna with one hand.
数月来，吴永宁爬上中国城市街头高耸的塔楼和建筑物，一边在楼顶边缘来回走动，或单手抓着天线塔，一边自拍。
Through his dizzying lens, he became a celebrity for his high-altitude stunts, amassing thousands of followers on Weibo, the Chinese microblogging site.
通过令人晕眩的镜头，他成了一位高空特技表演明星，在微博上聚集了成千上万的关注者。
But on Nov. 8, his online posts suddenly stopped.
但11月8日那天，他的网络发帖戛然而止。
That was when, the police in China now confirm, Mr. Wu fell to his death from the top of the Huayuan Hua Center, a building more than 60 stories high, in Changsha, the capital of Hunan Province, Chinese media reports said recently. This week, a video of his fall was posted online and widely shared.
据中国媒体最近报道，中国警方现已证实，这是吴永宁从湖南省会长沙一座60多层高的大楼——华远国际中心顶楼坠亡的日子。本周，他坠落的视频贴到了网上，被大量转发。
The young man’s death exemplified, again, the internet obsession of inviting millions of strangers to witness a life, in all its perils, pranks and failures.
这名年轻人的死亡再次证明了在互联网上，人们对邀请数百万陌生人来观看一条生命经受危险、戏弄和失败的痴迷。
It also shed light on the thrill-seeking subculture associated with rooftopping, in which ambitious daredevils scale skyscrapers around the world and take selfies against magnificent views above the tops of cities, from New York to Dubai to Russia.
这也揭示了有关顶楼危摄这种追求刺激的亚文化。那些不怕死的人雄心勃勃地攀爬世界各地的摩天大楼，在纽约、迪拜或俄罗斯等城市与高处的壮观景象前自拍。
In China, Mr. Wu’s death prompted the official media to warn about live-streaming stunts. “By climbing on high buildings without taking any safety measures, Wu put himself in danger and pushed himself to his limits, but that does not mean what he did is a sport,” a report in the China Daily said on Tuesday.
在中国，吴永宁的死亡使得官方媒体对特技表演直播发出了警告。“在不使用任何安全措施的情况下攀爬高楼，吴永宁将自己置于了危险境地并且将自己逼到了极限，但这并不意味着他所进行的是一项运动，”《中国日报》在周二的一篇报道中写道。
Mr. Wu’s family told the Xiaoxiang Morning Post, a newspaper based in Changsha, that the young man, who had worked as a film extra, had dangled himself from the building for a video he hoped would earn as much as $15,000 if it went viral — money he would use to get married and pay his mother’s medical bills.
吴永宁的家人告诉长沙的《潇湘晨报》，这名曾做过群众演员的年轻人把自己悬挂在大楼外，是希望自己能在这个视频火了之后挣到1.5万美元（约合十万人民币）——这笔钱，他本来要用来结婚、用来支付他母亲的医药费。
An excerpt from the video of Mr. Wu’s last moments shows him on top of the building, clad in black with his hair pulled back from his face, meticulously and repeatedly wiping the ledge. He swung his legs over the edge and partially hung there, clutching it with the full length of his arms, before pulling himself up and sitting down to wipe the edge again.
在吴永宁生命最后时刻的一段视频中，他在一栋大楼楼顶，穿着黑色衣服，头发扎在脑后，谨慎地反复擦拭楼顶的边缘。他把腿跨出边缘，半挂在楼顶，用整个手臂攀附着台面，然后又把自己拉了上去，坐下来再次擦拭边缘。
Then he swung his legs over one by one for a final time. He did two pull-ups into the void, gripping the ledge. Attempting a third, he appeared to struggle, trying to find a hold with one foot after the other. A small sound resembling a human voice, perhaps a whimper, can be heard on the recording. Then he dropped.
接着，最后一次，他依次将两条腿移了出去。他抓着边缘，在空中做了两次引体向上。在第三次尝试时，他显得有些吃力，两只脚轮流尝试寻找支点。在视频中可以听到一个微弱的声音，像是人声，可能是一声呜咽。接着，他掉了下去。
His death resounded in the community of people who seek urban altitudes for thrills, for curiosity, or for profit.
他的死亡在这个为了刺激、好奇或是为了挣钱而追求登上城市高处的群体中引起了回响。
Daniel Cheong, 55, a professional cityscape photographer who lives in Dubai, home of some of the world’s tallest skyscrapers, said that when he moved to the emirate in 2008 there was a small, informal group of rooftoppers who found each other on social media through their photographs.
55岁的丹尼尔·钟(Daniel Cheong)是一位居住在迪拜的都市风景专业摄影师，迪拜拥有世界上一些最高的摩天大楼。丹尼尔·钟说，当他在2008年移居迪拜时，有一个人数不多的非正式高空摄影群体，大家在社交媒体上通过相片找到了彼此。
“There are different flavors — those who are doing it for the pure purpose of cityscape photography and those who are doing it for the thrill to post on Instagram and YouTube,” he said in a telephone interview on Wednesday.
“有不同的风格——有人这么做单纯是为了拍摄都市风光，有人是为了追求刺激，好发在Instagram和YouTube上，”他在周三的一个电话采访中表示。
Mr. Cheong, who has a photography business in Dubai through which he gains access to rooftops legally, said that he has been on roofs as high as 100 floors up, fixing his camera equipment to a safety leash. On some rooftops, there is nothing to stop a person from going over the edge, he said.
丹尼尔·钟在迪拜的摄影生意使他能以合法途径登上楼顶，他称自己曾将摄影器材固定在安全绳上，登上过100层楼高的楼顶。在一些大楼楼顶，没有任何东西可以阻止一个人翻越边缘，他说道。
“The goal is to capture the cityscape,” he said. “The attraction really has nothing to do with the fact that you go to the 100th floor. It is purely for composition.”
“目的是要去拍摄城市风光，”他说。“吸引之处完全不在于你要上100层楼这个事。这纯粹是为了构图。”
But he said informal bands of rooftoppers, many of them Russian, are seeking to build online networks of followers on YouTube and Instagram, and hopefully, a lucrative deal out of advertisements.
但他说，一群不正规的高空拍摄人群——其中大多是俄罗斯人——为的是在YouTube和Instagram上建立自己的网络粉丝群，并希望能挣到一大笔广告费。
Such thrill-seekers, he said, “mostly have a reputation for sneaking illegally on rooftops to get selfies. It is more the thrill of getting very high.”
他说，这些追求刺激的人“大多都有非法偷偷登上顶楼自拍的名声。更多是在于登上高处的刺激。”
Neil Ta, a photographer in Toronto, took up rooftopping in 2009 to fulfill an aesthetic curiosity, climbing to the tops of tall buildings in Canada and during his travels in Southeast Asia for the view.
尼奥·塔(Neil Ta)是多伦多的一名摄影师，为了满足对美的好奇，从2009年开始了高空摄影，当他在加拿大或是在东南亚旅行时，都会爬上高楼的楼顶一览风光。
“The reality of it is not everyone is going up there and prancing on the ledges and being irresponsible,” he said in an interview on Thursday. “There are a lot of people going up there and looking at the city from a safe distance from the ledge.”
“事实是，并非每个去到楼顶的人都会在边缘走来走去、不负责任，”他在周四的采访中表示。“很多人登上楼顶，会在一个与边缘保持着安全距离的地方来看这个城市。”
But Mr. Ta said he became disillusioned with the changing nature of the skyscraper adventures over the years. Instagram grew more popular for recording mischief-making and feats of daring. Security was enhanced in high places, and gaining access to roofs of skyscrapers became more difficult.
但尼奥·塔表示，近年来，摩天大楼冒险性质的改变使他的幻想破灭了。Instagram上越来越流行拍摄恶作剧或是为了证明胆量的视频。高空位置的安保措施加强了，要获得登上摩天大楼楼顶的许可越来越难。
Where once he persisted through the challenges of scouting locations with unlocked rooftops, Mr. Ta began to notice “a newer breed of rooftopper” who did not hesitate to use a crowbar or bolt cutter. He quit rooftopping in 2014.
在坚持不怕麻烦地寻找未上锁顶楼的同时，他也开始注意到出现了一群会毫不犹豫地用上撬棍或断线钳的“高空摄影者新品种”。他在2014年便停止了高空摄影。
“There was no art left in the process,” he wrote in a farewell blog post that year. “No subtlety.”
“这个过程中已经毫无艺术可言了，”他在当年一篇告别的博客帖子上写道。“太直接了。”
Mr. Ta said on Thursday that he sympathized with Mr. Wu, however. “He was doing it to win a prize. I could see why he would want to do that to provide for his family. So I can’t really fault him.”
但尼奥·塔周四表示，他仍十分同情吴永宁。“他是为了得到奖赏而这么做的，我能理解他为什么为了养活他的家人要这么做。因此我也真的不能指责他。