If there is a stylish product made for cats, chances are Kate Benjamin owns it or has written about it. Or both.
如果有一种专为猫咪打造的时髦产品，凯特·本杰明(Kate Benjamin)十有八九会拥有一件，或在自己博客里提到过它。或者，两者皆是。
Ms. Benjamin, 42, started blogging about her favorite things for cats in 2007, and over time a business began to emerge. Readers posted fan mail. Boutique manufacturers started advertising on her site and sending samples for her to review. And the number of cats in her 1,100-square-foot condominium grew. (At last count, she had 11.)
42岁的本杰明从2007年开始，在博客上发布她喜欢的猫咪用品。日子一长，商机便开始浮现。读者粉丝们写来邮件，制造商们开始在她的网站上宣传，并给她寄来样品试用。而她在自己1100平方英尺（约102平方米）的共管式公寓中养的猫，也越来越多了（最近一次数，有11只）。
As her advertising revenue climbed, Ms. Benjamin quit her day job as the marketing director of Boon, a company that sells modern baby products, and opened a design studio where she and her employees could create cat toys and accessories to sell on her website. And last year, she re-branded her Moderncat blog as Hauspanther, an “online magazine for design-conscious cat people.”
随着每年的广告收入不断攀升，本杰明辞去了她在一家现代婴儿用品销售公司Boon作为市场部主任的日间工作，然后开了一家设计室，让她和员工可以在这里设计猫咪的玩具和用具，放在她的网站上销售。去年，她将自己的博客从“现代猫”(Moderncat)更名为Hauspanther，一份“为在意产品设计的爱猫人士而创的在线杂志”。
Next on the horizon is a consulting business built around the concept of “catification”: tailoring your living space to the needs of your cat without sacrificing aesthetics.
她接下来要做的，是一项围绕“猫咪化生活”(catificaion)这一概念的咨询服务：为你量身打造生活空间，既能适应猫咪的需要，又不会有碍美感。
“The idea is to influence the mass cat-product industry to step up their game,” said Ms. Benjamin, who has teamed up with Jackson Galaxy, the cat behaviorist from the television show “My Cat From Hell,” for this effort. “We just want to be the go-to source for anyone who wants to live stylishly with cats.”
“我们的想法是影响猫咪用品的规模制造业，促进产业升级，”本杰明说，为此，她已经和《管教恶猫》(My Cat From Hell)电视节目中的猫咪行为专家杰克森·盖勒希(Jackson Galaxy)组成了团队。“我们只想成为所有想和猫咪潇洒同居的主人都信赖的信息源。”
As the tattoo on her arm announces, Ms. Benjamin is positioning herself as a cat lady for a new generation. A vegan with Bettie Page bangs, she has upended the old stereotype of the frumpy, middle-aged woman surrounded by cats. And her two-bedroom townhouse here is a showcase of the latest in feline interior design.
正如她手臂上的纹身所展示的一样，本杰明给自己的定位是一名新生代的猫女士。作为一位留着贝蒂·佩姬式刘海(Bettie Page bangs)的严格素食主义者，她颠覆了过去那种因循守旧的中年女人身边围着一群猫的经典形象。而这套双卧室的联排别墅，正是她的猫科动物家居设计新品展示厅。
The living room is filled with all manner of cat beds, scratchers, hiding spots and perches, including a miniature sun bed attached to sliding glass doors that open to a catio (a patio enclosed for the protection of her cats). The centerpiece on the dining table is not a flower arrangement or a fruit bowl, but a white porcelain cat bed designed to look like a sink. On the coffee table is a thronelike cat lounge that doubles as a scratcher. And a huge basket of cat toys is stationed next to the sofa.
客厅里放满了各式各样的猫窝、猫抓板、藏身处和栖息地，其中包括一个迷你版的日光浴猫窝，就靠在通往“猫台”（为保护猫咪而封闭起来的露台）的一扇玻璃推拉门旁边。餐桌中央摆放的装饰品既不是一瓶鲜花，也不是一盘水果，而是一个白色的陶瓷猫窝，形状看起来像一个水槽。茶几上摆着一个王座状的猫沙发，也可兼用作猫抓板。还有一大篮的猫玩具，就放在这个沙发旁边。
“It is a little bit over the top,” said Ms. Benjamin, who admits to showering in the second bathroom because the master bath has been given over to litter boxes. But that’s all right, she said, because it means the cats “all have lots of options. Rarely is there a fight over places to sit.”
“有点受不了了，”本杰明说，她承认自己如今得在次卫里洗澡，因为主浴室已经让给了一堆猫砂盆。但是没关系，她说，因为这意味着，这些猫“都有很多选择。很少有猫咪为了争地方坐而打架”。
The crush of cat products is an inevitable consequence of having a blog that serves up a different item every day, along with a dose of attitude you won’t find in the plain-vanilla pages of a magazine like Cat Fancy.
这种对猫咪用品的迷恋，是在拥有博客后无可避免的后果。她的博客每天都要上线一种不同的产品，还带有些许你在Cat Fancy这样毫无特色的杂志中找不到的态度。
Readers leave comments, some gushing, others critical, as well as suggestions. (The new site gets about 150,000 page views a month, she said, but it is still building traffic; the old site, which she shuttered to avoid a lawsuit with a Canadian magazine that had adopted the Modern Cat name, got around 350,000.) The product manufacturers, which tend to be mom-and-pop shops, use the feedback to refine their wares and develop new items — which, of course, they send to Ms. Benjamin to review.
读者们留下了很多评论，有些人赞不绝口，有些人挑三拣四，还有些人会提些建议（她说新网站每个月有将近15万的浏览量，但流量还在不断提高；而旧网站的月浏览量大约为35万，但她为了避免与同样用了“现代猫”这个名称的一份加拿大杂志打官司而将它关闭了）。那些用品制造商通常都是一些夫妻店，他们根据这些反馈来优化自己的产品，并研发新的设计——当然，他们还会继续把新品送给本杰明试用。
Some of these companies advertise on her site or have affiliate arrangements with Ms. Benjamin, who gets a flat fee or a percentage of sales when a customer clicks through from her blog and buys something (although she won’t say exactly how much that amounts to over the course of a year). But others pay nothing to be on her site.
在这些公司中，有些在她的网站上做广告，或者和本杰明有密切的联系。当有客户通过她的博客点击并购买某件物品时，本杰明就会得到一笔固定的费用，或一定比例的销售提成（但她没说，一年下来这笔钱的金额具体有多少）。但还有一些东西，不用支付任何费用也能登上她的网站。
“I keep my editorial honest and straightforward, regardless of whether or not I’m receiving any compensation,” she said. “One of my favorite things to do is to help promote a new or small company just because they make great products that my readers need to know about.”
“我一直保持着测评的诚实性，无论能否得到什么报酬，”她说，“我最喜欢做的一件事，就是帮忙推广一家新开的或小型的公司，仅仅因为他们在制造一些我的读者们需要了解的、非常棒的产品。”
As far as she is concerned, she said, what it comes down to is good design.
在她看来，她说，归根结底就是要有优良的产品设计。
“I would like to see every cat in a happy, loving, forever home, and I want to keep them there through design,” said Ms. Benjamin, who studied environmental design and analysis, with an emphasis on interior design, at Cornell and branched out into industrial design and visual communications at Arizona State University. “Because if somebody doesn’t want to buy a scratcher because the scratchers are so ugly, and then the cat scratches on the sofa, the cat’s booted onto the street or taken to the shelter. If a product design can help change that, that’s where I want to see this go.”
“我想看到每只猫都有一个快乐、可爱、永久的住所，我想通过好的产品设计来留住它们，”本杰明说道，她在康奈尔(Cornell)学习了侧重室内设计的环境设计与分析专业，并在亚利桑那州立大学(Arizona State University)将专业扩展到了工业设计与视觉沟通的领域。“因为，如果有人由于猫抓板太难看而不想购买，那么猫咪在沙发上乱抓之后，就会被踢到大街上或送到收容所。如果一项产品设计能够帮助改变那种情况，那就是我要去努力的方向。”
The people whose products appear on Hauspanther credit Ms. Benjamin with helping to build the market for designer cat furniture, a small but growing category. Once her blog became a go-to place for furnishings that appealed equally to cats and their owners, these vendors say, more specialty retailers cropped up, widening the product mix, and big chain stores like Walmart and Target began carrying nicer-looking cat products.
那些获Hauspanther网站展示其产品的供应商，称赞本杰明促进了猫咪设计家居市场的形成。这是一个规模不大却在成长的细分市场。一旦她的博客变成想购买那些既吸引猫咪、也吸引猫主人的家具的首选地，这些供应商说，更多的专业零售商会纷纷出现，扩大产品组合的种类。而大型连锁店，比如沃尔玛(Walmart)和塔吉特(Target)，也会开始销售更好看的猫咪用品了。
“She has actually been a really good advocate for the industry as a whole,” said Sean Hamilton, whose company, Square Cat Habitat, sells cat furniture with a modern Scandinavian look and detachable carpet that people can match to their décor. He considers Ms. Benjamin’s site the best way to reach likely buyers, and he echoed her views about the loftier purpose of high-end cat design.
“她实际上已经成为这一行业的绝佳倡议者，”肖恩·汉密尔顿(Sean Hamilton)说，他的公司Square Cat Habitat主营现代斯堪的纳维亚(Modern Scandinavian)式的猫家具，并带有可拆卸盖毯，可任人搭配自家的装修风格。他认为，本杰明的网站是找到潜在买家的最好途径，并回应了本杰明关于高端猫咪家具设计的伟大意义的观点。
“Our goal is to bring cats and their owners together,” Mr. Hamilton said. “A lot of times, people will buy these carpeted cat trees, and while they look O.K. at the beginning, they end up getting beat-up and looking shabby and getting put in the back room. Subsequently, the cat winds up in the back room.”
“我们的目标就是让猫咪和它们的主人待在一起，”汉密尔顿说，“很多时候，人们会购买这些有覆盖物的猫爬架，但是，这样的家具虽然一开始看着没问题，最后却破破烂烂，看起来很蹩脚，于是被藏进了阁楼。于是，这只猫咪最后也不得不在阁楼里待着了。”
Jed Crystal, who makes the Hepper line of pod-shaped cat beds, said that awareness of his products and others like them has “grown dramatically over the last six years, partially because of blogs like Kate’s.”
设计了Hepper系列豆荚状猫窝的杰德·克里斯特尔(Jed Crystal)说，关注他的产品和其他类似产品的人“在过去六年里急剧增长，部分是因为凯特那样的博客。”
Of course, the popularity of cat pictures and videos on the Internet hasn’t hurt demand either, he added.
当然，猫咪的图片和视频在因特网上的风靡，也对需求有益无害，他补充道。
But the real explanation for the emerging market for high-end cat furniture may be one of demographics. As Ms. Benjamin pointed out, many people are waiting longer to have children, and they don’t want to wait to set up a nice home.
但是，高端猫咪家具市场出现的真正理由，可能是人口统计学上的一个原因。正如本杰明指出的那样，很多人都愿意多等一段时间才要孩子，但他们都想早点组建一个美好的家。
“Their pets become their children,” she said. “They’re given the best food and the best vet care. And, of course, the best products.”
“宠物变成了他们的孩子，”她说。“它们获得了最好的食物和医疗，当然，还有最好的用品。”
Her experience with modern baby accessories served as a kind of blueprint for her current endeavors.
她在现代婴儿用品上的推广经验，为她目前在做的事业画出了一幅蓝图。
“We were pioneering this idea of, just because you have kids, you don’t have to have ugly stuff in your living room,” Ms. Benjamin said of her previous job. “I loved the concept, but I kept saying, ‘Well, my kids have fur.’ And nobody’s doing this in the pet product business.”
“我们当时在拓展这样的理念，正因为你有了孩子，所以客厅里就不要再有难看的东西了，”本杰明聊起了以前的工作，“我喜欢这种概念，但我总是说，‘可不是，我的孩子们都穿着一身毛皮呢。’况且，在宠物用品行业，还没有人在做这件事。”
During a recent tour of her condominium, Ms. Benjamin showed off a few of the products she has promoted on her site. She lingered over a serpentine multicat tree called the Curvynest, which “causes a firestorm every time I write about it,” she said. “Isn’t this great? People freak out every time I post something to Instagram and it’s in the background or the cats are on it, because it’s so unique, it’s so beautiful.”
在最近的一次公寓参观过程中，本杰明炫耀了几件她在网站上宣传过的产品。她在一个名为Curvynest的多猫共用曲形猫爬架旁徘徊，这件物品“每次我一写，就会引起火爆的反响，”她道，“好极了，不是吗？每次我在Instagram上发布什么东西，只要有这件物品在图片的背景中，或者有猫爬在上面，人们就会就兴奋异常。因为它是那么独特，又那么漂亮。”
In addition to her blog, Ms. Benjamin uses Instagram and Facebook to reach out to consumers, and sends out a daily email newsletter to 18,000 subscribers. She takes most of the photographs herself, and they usually feature the item du jour draped with one or more of her cats: Andy, Dazzler, Simba, Mackenzie, Ando, Flora, McKinley, Sherman, Ratso Katso, Little Bear and Sylvia. (A 12th cat, Claude, lives in her studio.)
除了她的博客，本杰明还用Instagram和Facebook来吸引消费者，而且每天会给1.8万订阅者发出一封新闻邮件。大多数图片都是她自己拍摄的，通常会特写当天推介的猫用品，图上还零星点缀着她的那几只猫：安迪(Andy)、达泽勒(Dazzler)、辛巴(Simba)、麦肯齐(Mackenzie)、安多(Ando)、弗罗拉(Flora)、麦金利(McKinley)、谢尔曼(Sherman)、拉次奥·卡次奥(Ratso Katso)，小熊(Little Bear)和西尔维亚(Sylvia)。（第12只猫，克劳德[Claude]住在她的工作室里。）
“That’s why the manufacturers send me all this stuff,” she said. “Because I’m going to take shots around the house, and their stuff is going to be in it.”
“这就是制造商们会给我送来所有这些东西的原因，”她说，“因为我会在房子里四处取景，而他们的物品会出现在照片里。”
She is attuned to each cat’s nuances and preferences, although she admits that Mackenzie is her favorite. (“Isn’t he adorbs? He is the one I would marry.”) Dazzler and Simba love the Hepper pod bed; Andy likes the laser pointer. And they all love a feather-on-a-stick toy called Da Bird.
她深谙每只猫的细微差别，和不同表现，尽管她承认麦肯齐是她的最爱（“难道他不可爱吗？正是我想嫁的那种类型。”）。达泽勒和辛巴喜欢那个Hepper猫窝；安迪喜欢那只激光笔。它们都喜欢一只叫做Da Bird的有羽毛的逗猫棒。
“It’s the best toy ever,” Ms. Benjamin said. “They go insane. I mean, complete freakout madness.”
“这是最棒的一个玩具，”本杰明说，“它们喜欢得着了魔。我的意思是说，就像完全疯了一样。”
Despite having access to everything a modern feline might want, her cats do still claw the furniture and otherwise misbehave. And keeping the carpet clean is a challenge, she conceded, although burning incense does help offset the distinctive aroma.
尽管本杰明的猫咪们已经得到了现代猫科动物可能梦想的一切，它们仍会去抓挠家具，要不然就随地大小便。因此，她承认保持地毯一直干净是个难题，尽管用熏香来去除异味会有所帮助。
On her way out the door of her condo, she called out plaintively, “Are you guys all going to pee on the carpet as soon as we leave?”
往公寓门外走的路上，她伤心地大声呼叫，“我们一走，你们这些家伙就会在地毯上撒尿吗？”
There was no response.
没有回应。
Although a recent bout with breast cancer has prompted her to slow down a bit, Ms. Benjamin still spends mornings in her home office working on her blog, surrounded by cats. In the afternoons, she visits her studio, in an old pie factory in the artsy Grand Avenue neighborhood, where she helps her three assistants pack and ship the products they make.
尽管最近一轮与乳腺癌的较量，已经使她放慢了前进的步伐，但本杰明依然会花一早上的时间在住宅办公室里更新博客，身边围着一群猫。下午的时候，她会来到艺术气氛浓厚的格兰大道(Grand Avenue)社区，在自己位于一家老馅饼厂里的工作室，帮三位助理一起打包装运他们制造的产品。
Ms. Benjamin is also collaborating on a book about catification with Mr. Galaxy, and is an occasional guest on “My Cat From Hell,” the Animal Planet show he hosts.
本杰明还与盖勒希合作，写了一本关于猫咪化生活(catification)的书，偶尔也在他主持的动物星球节目《管教恶猫》中做客。
He considers her an ideal foil. “Half of the challenge that I face in my work is making spaces appealing to cats,” he said. “I know what cats want and like, and I make spaces that appeal to them. The other half of that is that we have to make the spaces appealing to humans. That’s where Kate comes in.”
他把她当成了完美的搭档。“我在工作中面对的挑战，一半来自使住处对猫咪产生吸引力，”他说，“我知道猫咪们想要什么和喜欢什么，我会设计出对它们有吸引力的地方。而另外一半的挑战是，我们还得让住处对主人也有吸引力。那就是凯特负责解决的问题了。”
The compromises that entails, however, are not without controversy.
然而，努力做出的妥协并非没有争议。
Enclosed litter boxes, for example: “This is a huge debate,” Ms. Benjamin said.
比如封闭型猫砂盆——“这是一个最有争议的东西，”本杰明说。
Many people, Mr. Jackson included, dismiss them as revolting port-a-potties. But in her view, if the alternative is getting rid of the cat, the box should stay.
包括杰克森在内的许多人，都把猫砂盆当做令人厌恶的临时移动厕所。但在本杰明看来，如果另一个选择是扔掉这只猫的话，那么这种猫砂盆就应该留下来。
High prices are another common point of contention.
价格昂贵，是争议过程中另一个常见的论点。
Among her readers, she said, “The biggest comment I get is, ‘A $400 cat bed! Do you know how many shelter cats that would feed?’ ”
在她的读者当中，她说，“我遭遇过的最大意见是，‘一个400美元（约合人民币2429元）的猫窝！你知道那些钱可以养活多少只流浪猫吗？’”
Yes, she does. But the point of showing off high-end products, she emphasized, is not necessarily to suggest that people should buy them. Rather, it is to offer D.I.Y. ideas about how people can “catify” their homes on any budget.
没错，她知道。但她强调说，炫耀高端产品的意义并不在于让人们购买。相反，这是在提供一种DIY的理念，教人们无论预算多少，都能让他们的家“适猫化”。
“Just look at that $800 cat tower, and maybe you can modify a bookshelf to do something similar, if you’re willing to do the work,” Ms. Benjamin said. “I’m not saying you have to buy it. Just please be inspired by it.”
“只要看看那个800美元（约合人民币4857元）的猫爬塔，你或许就能修改一个书架，做出类似的东西来，只要你愿意，”本杰明说，“我不是说你必须买下它。只是借此产生灵感吧。”