WASHINGTON — The recall of exploding Takata airbags, one of the largest and most complex auto recalls in the nation’s history, may grow even larger.
华盛顿——会发生爆炸的高田安全气囊的召回规模可能会进一步扩大，这是美国历史上最大、最复杂的汽车召回案。
On Thursday, officials from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the top federal auto safety regulator, said it had expanded its investigation of the defect beyond the airbags situated in front of the driver and front-seat passenger to include side airbags and was also examining all model years, not just older inflaters. If these are determined to be defective, the regulator said, the already spiraling recall may need to be widened to include more vehicles.
周四，联邦最高汽车安全监管机构美国国家公路交通安全局(National Highway Traffic Safety Administration)的官员表示，该机构现在将调查范围从司机及副驾前的气囊扩展至侧面安全气囊，还将检查所有车型，而不仅仅是老一代的增压泵。该监管机构表示，如果最终确定这些气囊也存在缺陷，可能需要扩大已经不断加大的召回规模，涉及更多车辆。
More than 19 million cars made by 12 automakers have already been recalled in the United States to fix dangerous airbags that can rupture violently and spew metal fragments at vehicle occupants. Millions more have been recalled abroad. The ruptures have been linked to eight deaths and dozens of injuries.
在美国已有12家汽车制造商生产的逾1900万辆汽车被召回，以修复可能会猛然迸裂，导致金属碎片飞向车内人员的危险气囊。在国外还有数百万辆车已被召回。气囊爆裂事故已经导致八人死亡，数十人受伤。
So far, the recalls have been limited to older airbag inflaters — the metal casing that contains the propellant — in front of the driver and passenger. But recently, side airbag inflaters — including those in new cars — have raised concerns.
迄今为止，召回举措仅限于位于司机及副驾前方的老一代气囊增压泵——装有推进剂的金属外壳。但最近，侧面安全气囊——包括新车中的气囊——也引发了担忧。
This summer, regulators asked Volkswagen to provide information about the rupture of a Takata-made side airbag in a Tiguan from the 2015 model year. And last weekend, General Motors recalled almost 400 cars in the United States after Takata informed the automaker that side airbags in those vehicles had failed in tests.
今夏，监管机构要求大众(Volkswagen)提供有关一辆2015年款途观车中高田制造的侧面安全气囊发生爆裂的信息。在高田告知有将近400辆车的侧面安全气囊没有通过测试后，通用汽车(General Motors)上周末召回了那些车。
“These have all been brought under the current investigation,” Mark Rosekind, the administrator at the safety agency, said to reporters on Thursday after a public meeting on the airbag recall. “We’re looking at how far the scope needs to go.”
“这些均被列入当前的调查，”安全局局长马克·罗斯金德(Mark Rosekind)周四参加完有关安全气囊问题的会议后告诉记者。“我们在考虑范围需要扩展到多大。”
Gordon Trowbridge, a spokesman for the agency, clarified later that all Takata inflaters using a certain chemical compound as a propellant “are within the scope of the investigation. All model years.”
该机构发言人戈登·特洛布里奇(Gordon Trowbridge)后来说明，所有使用某种化合物作为推进剂的高田增压泵“都在调查范围内。所有车型。”
Takata said it was investigating the newest ruptures.
高田公司表示正在调查最新的爆裂问题。
“While we are still investigating the cause of this malfunction, we believe it is unrelated to the previous recalls, which the extensive data suggests were a result of aging and long-term exposure to heat and high humidity,” said Jared Levy, a Takata spokesman. “We are cooperating closely with N.H.T.S.A. and the vehicle manufacturers.”
“我们仍在调查此次故障的原因，但我们认为这与之前的召回案无关，大量数据显示之前的问题是由老化、长期曝露于高温和高湿度环境造成的，”高田发言人杰瑞德·莱维(Jared Levy)说。“我们正在与美国国家公路交通安全局及汽车生产商密切合作。”
Also on Thursday, Senators John Thune and Bill Nelson, the top Republican and Democrat on the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, sent a letter to Takata, demanding documentation about the side airbags.
同样也是在周四，商务、科学和运输委员会(Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee)的两党领袖——参议员约翰·图恩(John Thune)和比尔·尼尔森(Bill Nelson)给高田公司寄了一封信，要求获得有关侧面安全气囊的文件资料。
“Takata has repeatedly emphasized the critical role long-term exposure of vehicles to high heat and humidity may play in ruptures of its ammonium nitrate-based inflaters subject to previous recalls,” the senators wrote. “This incident, however, involved a vehicle that was less than one year old.”
“高田多次强调，在之前召回的硝酸铵增压泵中，汽车长期处于高温和高湿度环境，可能在爆裂问题上扮演着关键角色，”两名参议员写道。“但这起事件涉及的车辆使用时间还不到一年。”
Officials at the agency said that they still had not determined the root cause of the explosions, but they suggested that the ruptures were most likely related to the propellant that Takata uses to inflate its airbags, a compound called phase-stabilized ammonium nitrate, or P.S.A.N.
该机构的官员们表示，他们仍未确定气囊爆炸的根本原因，但他们暗示爆裂问题可能与高田用来给安全气囊充气的推进剂有关，这种化合物被称为相稳定硝酸铵(PSAN)。
“We believe that the reason these inflaters are malfunctioning in this way has something to do with the type of propellant Takata is using and how Takata engineers it,” said Stephen A. Ridella, director of the agency’s office for vehicle crashworthiness research, who spoke during the meeting. “We don’t know yet, but the best and most current information is pointing to some problem with the way this Takata P.S.A.N. propellant changes as it gets older and how it burns differently, possibly because of those changes.”
“我们相信增压泵出故障的原因与高田使用的推进剂类型及利用方式有关，”该机构汽车耐撞性研究部门的负责人斯蒂芬·A·瑞德拉(Stephen A. Ridella)在会议期间表示。“我们还不知道，但目前最好、最新的信息都表明，问题出在高田PSAN推进剂随着不断老化发生的变化，以及这些变化可能导致的燃烧方式的改变。”
Patents filed by Takata show that its engineers have been aware of the potentially dangerous effects of moisture and volatile temperatures on ammonium nitrate for almost two decades and have long struggled to stabilize the compound.
高田提交的专利文件显示，在过去将近20年的时间里，其工程师已经认识到湿度和温度波动可能会给硝酸铵造成不利影响，他们一直努力稳定这种化合物。