The parody Twitter account @GSElevator, a stream of darkly funny, frequently callous anonymous snippets purportedly overheard in elevators at Goldman Sachs, has offered comments on a dizzying range of topics to its more than 600,000 followers.
从Twitter段子号@GSElevator源源不断发出的那些黑色幽默的、时常透着冷酷无情的匿名言论，号称都是从高盛(Goldman Sachs)的电梯里听来的，这些只言片语涉及的主题五花八门，吸引了超过60万名追随者。
There are matters of the heart (“Why would I marry? It’s betting some chick half my net worth that I will love her forever”) and air travel (“The exit row. First class for poor people”). There are tweets about corporate warfare (“Only Neanderthals resort to violence. I prefer crushing one’s spirit, hope, or ego”).
有些是讲情感（“我干嘛要结婚呢？那是拿我个人资产的一半去打赌我会爱她一辈子”）和空中旅行的（“出口位，穷人的头等舱”）。有一些是关于商战的（“只有野蛮人才会诉诸暴力。我倾向于摧毁一个人的精神、希望或自尊”）。
And, of course, there are musings about Goldman (“Getting fired from Goldman is like being traded by the Yankees. You’ll probably still make millions, but it’s not the same”).
当然，也有对高盛的思考（“被高盛解雇就像是被洋基队卖了。可能还是能拿几百万的薪水，但已经不可同日而语了”）。
Now the publishing industry will test whether the pseudonymous author’s story will succeed as a Wall Street exposé. Touchstone, an imprint of Simon & Schuster, said on Wednesday that it had acquired “Straight to Hell: True Tales of Deviance and Excess in the World of Investment Banking.”
出版业现在打算做一个尝试，看看能否把这位化名作者的故事当作华尔街内幕曝光来卖。西蒙与舒斯特公司(Simon & Schuster)的下属品牌“试金石”(Touchstone)在周三表示，已经签下《直达地狱：投行世界失常与放纵的真实故事》(Straight to Hell: True Tales of Deviance and Excess in the World of Investment Banking)一书。
The book, whose author writes under the name J. T. Stone but has revealed his identity to his publisher, editor and literary agent, will be released in October, in the prime fall season for bookselling.
作者将以J·T·斯通(J. T. Stone)为名出版此书，但是向出版社、编辑和经纪人透露了自己的真实身份。出版时间定在10月，正值图书销售最火爆的秋季。
Mr. Stone, as he is calling himself, hopes to keep his real identity hidden.
自称“斯通先生”的作者希望能继续隐姓埋名。
“We have no plans to release his identity at this time,” Brian Belfiglio, a spokesman for Touchstone, said on Wednesday.
“试金石”发言人布莱恩·贝尔菲戈里奥(Brian Belfiglio)在周三说，“我们目前没有公布他的身份的打算。”
The publisher said the book would go beyond the Twitter account that for years has parodied the boorish, over-the-top behavior that has become associated with big Wall Street banks.
出版社说这本书将超出原Twitter帐号的内容，后者多年来一直在戏仿的那种粗鲁、过分的言行。近些年，这类言行已经和华尔街大银行的形象紧紧联系起来。
It has especially poked fun at Goldman, a firm that was portrayed in Rolling Stone magazine as a bloodsucking “vampire squid” and, for a time, became a symbol of Wall Street greed. The profile on the @GSElevator Twitter account is illustrated with a photo of a glowering Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chairman and chief executive of Goldman.
高盛是它尤其偏爱的玩笑对象，这家被《滚石》(Rolling Stone)杂志形容为一只“吸血鱿鱼”的公司一度成为华尔街贪婪的象征。@GSElevator在个人资料中使用了高盛主席兼首席执行官劳尔德·贝兰克梵(Lloyd C. Blankfein)的一张表情阴沉的照片。
David Wells, a spokesman for Goldman, declined to comment on the Twitter account and the book deal.
高盛发言人戴维·威尔斯(David Wells)拒绝就该Twitter帐号以及相关出版协议置评。
A description from Touchstone said “Straight to Hell” by Mr. Stone was “a humorous, insightful, and profoundly uncensored account of Wall Street, pulling back the curtain on a world that is both envied and loathed, yet never dull.” The author “will offer stories from his career in banking that capture the true character and nature of Wall Street culture today — a world far more abhorrent and way more entertaining than people can imagine,” the publisher said.
“试金石”在介绍斯通的《直达地狱》时称它是“对华尔街进行的一次幽默、深刻、完全不删节的评述，揭示了一个让人既羡慕又憎恶但永远不会乏味的世界。”出版社称作者“将讲述自己在银行工作的故事，刻画真实的人物和当今华尔街文化的本质——这是一个可恶和娱乐程度都远超人们想象的世界。”
The author declined to speak on the telephone but answered questions via email. He said that he had thought about writing a book long before he began tweeting.
作者拒绝电话联系，但通过电子邮件回答了问题。他说早在开始用Twitter之前他就已经考虑写书了。
“These are stories that I have been collecting over the course of my experiences in banking — events that have been so outrageous and funny, that I thought that one day they might be worth sharing,” he wrote.
“在银行工作的这些年里我一直在收集故事——一些极其骇人而搞笑的事件，我心想这些东西可能有朝一日是值得拿出来分享的，”他写道。
“Unlike other books that may be viewed similarly, this is not a whistle-blower scenario or an indictment or assault on a specific firm.”
“我的书跟其他可能被归为同类的书不一样，我没有去针对某个具体的机构去写内情揭发，也没有控诉或攻击。”
He added: “My aim is to showcase and illuminate the true culture of Wall Street as I have experienced it, and write a book that is not only very funny and entertaining, but also, insightful and substantive.”
他还说：“我的想法是展现和描绘我经历到的那个真实的华尔街文化，写出来的书不仅要好笑和娱乐，还要深刻和有分量。”
The author declined to comment on whether he is still working at Goldman.
对于他是否仍在高盛工作的问题，作者拒绝置评。
The Financial Times, which first reported the acquisition on Wednesday, said he has worked in fixed income in New York, Hong Kong and London.
于周三率先报道该书出版交易的《金融时报》(Financial Times)说，他曾在纽约、香港和伦敦工作，拿得是固定收入。
Simon & Schuster hopes that “Straight to Hell” emulates the success of “Liar’s Poker,” by Michael Lewis, a 1980s-era Wall Street memoir widely considered the classic of the genre that has sold more than two million copies.
西蒙与舒斯特希望《直达地狱》能重现迈克尔·刘易斯(Michael Lewis)的《说谎者的扑克牌》(Liar’s Poker)的辉煌，这本上世纪80年代的华尔街回忆录被公认为这一门类的经典，已经卖出了超过两百万册。
Investment banking tell-alls, however, are not surefire hits. Greg Smith, who in 2012 publicly resigned from Goldman with an Op-Ed page article in The New York Times, received a $1.5 million advance to write a book about his time at the bank. “Why I Left Goldman Sachs,” which was released by Grand Central Publishing later the same year, has sold about 19,000 copies in hardcover, according to Nielsen BookScan, which tracks about 85 percent of print sales.
不过投行探秘的书不见得能确保畅销。格雷格·史密斯(Greg Smith)在2012年用一篇《纽约时报》观点文章公开宣布从高盛辞职，当时他拿到了150万美元的预付稿酬，用来写一本书叙述他在银行的经历。《我为什么离开高盛》(Why I Left Goldman Sachs)在那一年年底由大中出版社(Grand Central Publishing)出版，据跟踪了约85%的纸书销售的尼尔森BookScan(Nielsen BookScan)称，该书的精装版售出了约1.9万册。
In an email, Mr. Stone displayed some of the same swagger that comes through in his @GSElevator Twitter feed. He was “very confident,” he wrote, “in my ability to deliver a best-seller.”
斯通在一封邮件中表现出了在@GSElevator的言论里常见到的那种张扬。他说他“对自己写出一本畅销书的能力相当有信心”。