Goldman Sachs has a reputation for consistently holding the winning lottery ticket numbers. But it got rid of the ticket that is poised to be one of this year’s biggest payoffs.
高盛(Goldman Sachs)以永远握有中奖彩票号码著称，但它却扔掉了今年注定会赢得大奖的一张彩票。
In 1999, the Wall Street bank was among the first investors in Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce business, injecting $3.3 million in what was then little more than a scrappy start-up operating out of its founder’s apartment in Hangzhou.
1999年，这家华尔街投行曾是中国电子商务公司阿里巴巴集团的首批投资者之一。尽管阿里巴巴当时不过是一家寒碜的初创公司，还在创始人在杭州的公寓里运营，高盛仍向阿里巴巴投资了330万美元（当时约合2730万元人民币）。
But as Alibaba Group prepares to sell its stock to the public for the first time, in one of the biggest and most eagerly anticipated initial public offerings in years, Goldman Sachs will not be among the investors standing to make mind-bending sums.It sold all of its stake in Alibaba by early 2004 — for $22 million, or nearly seven times its original investment. In comparison, some of the early investors who bought out Goldman Sachs’s stake have since made as much as 30 times their original investments as the company’s value has ballooned exponentially.
但如今，在阿里巴巴集团筹备上市之际——这是近几年来规模最大、最受期待的一次首次公开募股(IPO)——高盛将不会是能从中狂赚一笔的投资者之一。到2004年初，它就已经出售了所持有的阿里巴巴的所有股权——价格是2200万美元，相当于最初投资的将近七倍。相比之下，由于阿里巴巴的价值已呈几何级数增长，一些从高盛手中购买了这些股权的早期投资者赚到了30倍的收益。
For venture capitalists who make early calls on risky bets, it is all part of the game: You win some, you (comparatively) lose some. And in its defense, one former Goldman Sachs employee said, the bank still made a profit on its investment. It is also among six banks that are underwriting the I.P.O.
对于那些进行早期高风险押注的风投家来说，这只不过是游戏的一部分：你会赚钱，也会（相对来说）赔钱。一位前高盛员工为公司辩护说，这笔投资毕竟还是获得了收益。高盛也是这次IPO的六家承销商之一。
But for Wall Street’s leading deal maker, it is a symbol, nevertheless, of what could have been.
但对于华尔街的顶级交易商来说，这一经历仍然代表了那些本来可以成真的可能性。
Goldman Sachs declined to comment.
高盛拒绝置评。
In the years leading to the technology bubble, Goldman Sachs’s private equity arm, the Principal Investment Area, made big bets on technology stocks. From 1995 to 2000, the private equity arm built up a $1 billion global technology portfolio, investing $200 million in 25 Asian technology companies alone, according to news releases and statements by employees at the time.
在科技泡沫之前的几年，高盛的私募部门直接投资领域(Principal Investment Area)曾大举收购科技股。根据公司的新闻稿和当时员工的说法，从1995到2000年，这个部门累积了10亿美元的全球科技股投资组合，光是对亚洲的25家科技公司就投资了2亿美元。
The private equity unit’s Asia arm, led by Shirley Lin and Xiang-Dong Yang, invested in a range of rising stars like ChinaRen.com, a social media website, which later was acquired by the video hosting company Sohu.com.
这个私募部门的亚洲分支由林夏如(Shirley Lin)和杨向东负责，投资了一系列冉冉升起的“新星”，比如ChinaRen.com。这是一家社交媒体网站，后来被视频托管服务公司搜狐收购。
In October 1999, Goldman Sachs led Alibaba’s first round of investment, which raised $5 million and included Fidelity Growth Partners Asia, a venture capital arm of the mutual fund Fidelity. The investors in that round secured a 40 percent stake in the company, according to news reports.
1999年10月，高盛牵头进行了对阿里巴巴的首轮投资。这轮投资共计500万美元，参与者包括共同基金富达(Fidelity)旗下的富达亚洲风险投资(Fidelity Growth Partners Asia)。据媒体报道，那一轮的投资者共获得了公司40%的股份。
One Western executive who has known Jack Ma, Alibaba’s founder, for more than a decade, said: “At that time, Jack’s company was relatively undistinguished. No one would lend him any money or provide capital for the business.”But that soon changed. In January 2000, the Japanese technology group SoftBank and its founder, Masayoshi Son, announced a $20 million investment in Alibaba, as well as a commitment to inject more capital to build local versions of Alibaba outside China.
一位在10多年前就认识阿里巴巴创始人马云的西方高管说：“当时，马云的公司相对并不起眼。没有人愿意借钱给他，或是为公司提供资金。”但这种情况很快改变。2000年1月，日本科技集团软银(SoftBank)及其创始人孙正义(Masayoshi Son)宣布，对阿里巴巴投资2000万美元，并承诺，将为其在中国之外的本地化版本注入更多资本。
“Alibaba will become the leader in the fast-growing global business-to-business e-market, and this partnership will strengthen Alibaba’s position in the sector,” Ms. Lin said in a statement about the investment at the time.
“阿里巴巴将成为迅速增长的全球B2B电子市场的领导者，而我们的伙伴关系将强化阿里巴巴在该领域的地位，”林夏如当时在一份有关这笔投资的声明中说。
SoftBank and Goldman became the two dominant shareholders in the company. SoftBank, which held on to its stake in Alibaba and invested more money, currently holds a 34 percent stake, according to a filing by the company in May that revealed top shareholders.
软银和高盛成为了该公司当时的两大股东。根据阿里巴巴今年5月份提交的一份披露了大股东信息的文件，软银此后继续持有阿里巴巴的股份，并且追加了投资，目前持有34%的股份。
When the tech bubble burst, investors around the world began to re-evaluate their positions in technology start-ups. Some of Goldman’s partners in the private equity fund began asking questions about the portfolio of Chinese Internet companies, according to former employees. At first, Goldman Sachs stood by its guns. Ms. Lin was frequently quoted in news reports saying that Goldman Sachs took a long-term view on China.
在科技股泡沫破裂时，全世界的投资者都开始重新评估他们在科技初创公司的头寸。据高盛的前员工说，公司的一些私募基金合伙人开始询问对中国互联网企业的投资情况。起初，高盛坚持了自己的立场。媒体多次援引林夏如的话报道称，高盛对中国持长期观点。
But by 2003 Goldman’s private equity unit began to lose faith in Chinese start-ups and decided to sell its Alibaba stake. “There was no way of telling that Alibaba would become the success that it has become today,” said one person with knowledge of the unit’s thinking, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
但到了2003年，高盛的私募部门开始对中国的初创企业失去信心，决定出售手里的阿里巴巴股份。“当时不可能想到阿里巴巴会变得像现在这么成功，”一位不愿透露姓名的知情人士说。
“A lot of companies like Alibaba spent a lot of time moving sideways,” this person added.
“很多像阿里巴巴这样的公司，经过很长时间也没能成器，”此人还表示。
Hany Nada, an investor who helped organize the purchase of Goldman Sachs’s stake, said that in 2003 many tech investors thought the world was going to end.
投资人哈尼·纳达(Hany Nada)曾协助安排购买高盛的这些股权。他说，2003年时，很多高科技投资者都以为这个领域大势已去。
“After the tech bubble burst in 2000, everyone was very negative on start-ups and the Internet,” said Mr. Nada, a principal founder at the Silicon Valley venture capital firm GGV Capital. At the time, GGV Capital was beginning to build a portfolio that now includes some of China’s biggest Internet companies, among them Alibaba and Tudou, an online video company that was later acquired by Youku.
“2000年科技股泡沫破灭后，大家对初创企业和互联网都很不看好，”纳达说。他是硅谷风险投资公司纪源资本(GGV Capital)的主要创始人。当时，纪源资本已开始投资一些公司，其中有部分现已成长为中国互联网大牌，比如阿里巴巴和网络视频公司土豆网。土豆网后来被优酷收购。
GGV went on to invest in Alibaba many more times, eventually putting $7.8 million into the company. “We’ve made close to 30 times our original investment,” said Mr. Nada, calculating a blended average return of $200 million.
纪源资本多次投资阿里巴巴，总额累计780万美元。“现在已经接近于原有投资额的30倍，” 纳达说，综合平均收益为2亿美元。
If Goldman Sachs missed out on the grand prize by selling its stake in Alibaba early on, its role as one of six investment banks running the company’s initial public offering is a consolation prize. While the fees that Alibaba pays to the banks are expected to be lower than standard fare for Wall Street, these banks — Goldman Sachs among them — will lock in partnerships for the company’s future financing deals.
如果说高盛太早出售阿里巴巴的股权是错过了特等奖，那么它成为阿里巴巴IPO的六家承销投行之一，也算是获得了安慰奖。虽然阿里巴巴支付给这六家银行的费用预计会比华尔街的通常收费低，但它们——高盛也位列其中——几乎必定会成为该公司未来融资交易的合作伙伴。
Goldman did cash in on another lucrative I.P.O. in 1999 — its own.
高盛确实在1999年的一次利润丰厚的IPO中大赚了一笔——它自己的IPO。