OAKLAND, Calif. — ON Tuesday, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences awarded the 2014 Nobel Prize in Physics to three researchers whose work contributed to the development of a radically more efficient form of lighting known as light-emitting diodes, or LEDs.
加利福尼亚州奥克兰——周二，瑞典皇家科学院(Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences)将2014年诺贝尔物理学奖颁发给了三名致力于研发高效照明设备——发光二极管(LED)——的研究人员。
In announcing the award, the academy said, “Replacing light bulbs and fluorescent tubes with LEDs will lead to a drastic reduction of electricity requirements for lighting.” The president of the Institute of Physics noted: “With 20 percent of the world’s electricity used for lighting, it’s been calculated that optimal use of LED lighting could reduce this to 4 percent.”
皇家科学院宣布该奖项时表示，“用LED代替灯泡和荧光灯管会大幅降低照明所需的电力。”物理研究所(Institute of Physics)负责人指出，“世界上20%的电力用于照明，据统计，优化使用LED照明设备，可以将这一比例下降到4%。”
The winners, Shuji Nakamura, an American, and Isamu Akasaki and Hiroshi Amano, both from Japan, justly deserve their Nobel, and should be commended for creating a technology that produces the same amount of light with less energy.
获奖者是美国的中村修二(Shuji Nakamur)，以及日本的赤崎勇(Isamu Akasaki)和天野浩(Hiroshi Amano)，他们理应获得此项殊荣，他们创造的技术能够使用较少能源产生等量的光，因此应该受到称赞。
But it would be a mistake to assume that LEDs will significantly reduce overall energy consumption.
但如果认为LED会大幅降低整体能耗，那就错了。
LED’s are but the latest breakthrough in lighting efficiency. Consider the series of accelerated lighting revolutions ushered in by the Industrial Revolution. In the early and mid-1800s, for instance, “town gas” made from coal was developed and used to illuminate streetlights. Whale oil became the preferred indoor lighting fuel for upper-income Americans until it was replaced by more efficient kerosene lamps. And then, finally, in the late 19th century, the electric light bulb emerged.
LED只是照明效率方面的最新突破。看看工业革命以来，进展越来越快的照明技术革新吧。在19世纪早期及中期，人们由煤制得“煤气”，并使用煤气点亮路灯。鲸油成为高收入美国人首选的室内照明燃料，后来它被更高效的煤油灯取代。最后，到19世纪末，电灯泡问世了。
Along the way, demand would rise for these new technologies and increase as new ways were found to use them. This led to more overall energy consumption.
渐渐地，随着人们发现使用新技术的新方式，对于新技术的需求会不断提高。这加大了整体能源消耗。
From outer space, you can see the results of this long progression of illumination. More and more of the planet is dotted with clusters of lights.
从太空中能看到照明领域长期发展的成果。地球上越来越多的地方闪耀着灯光。
There is no reason to think that the trend lines for demand for LED lighting will be any different, especially as incomes rise and the desire for this cheaper technology takes hold in huge, emerging economies like China, India and Nigeria, where the sheer volume of the demand will be likely to trump the efficiency gains.
没有理由认为人们对LED照明技术的需求趋势会有所变化，特别是随着收入不断增加，在中国、印度、尼日利亚等新兴经济体，人们会越发渴望这种相对廉价的技术。如此规模巨大的需求所产生的能源消耗，可能会高于能效提高所节省的能源。
Energy-efficient lighting has been, without question, a boon for economic development. Over the past two centuries, the real cost of illumination in Britain has declined by a factor of 3,000, largely because of efficiency improvements, according to the researchers Roger Fouquet of the London School of Economics and Peter J. G. Pearson of Imperial College, London. This cheap lighting technology is used today not just to light our streets, workplaces and homes but for televisions, computers and cellphones.
毫无疑问，节能照明对于经济发展一直是有利的。伦敦政治经济学院(London School of Economics)的罗杰·富凯(Roger Fouquet)和伦敦帝国学院(Imperial College London)的彼得·J·G·皮尔逊(Peter J. G. Pearson)表示，在过去两个世纪中，英国的实际照明成本下降了3000倍，这在很大程度上是因为能源效率的提升。这种廉价的照明技术如今不仅用于照亮街道、工作场所和住所，还用于电视、电脑和手机。
These productivity improvements are a primary driver of long-term economic growth. Especially in developing economies, cheap, energy-efficient lighting will almost certainly allow poor people to bring modern lighting into their homes much faster than they otherwise would. And that will almost certainly result in faster growth in energy demand globally.
这些提升生产率的发展，是推动经济长期增长的主要动力。特别是在发展中国家，廉价、节能的照明技术几乎肯定会使穷人能够更快地在家中使用现代照明设备。这几乎肯定会造成全球能源需求增长的加速。
The growing evidence that low-cost efficiency often leads to faster energy growth was recently considered by both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency. They concluded that energy savings associated with new, more energy efficient technologies were likely to result in significant “rebounds,” or increases, in energy consumption. This means that very significant percentages of energy savings will be lost to increased energy consumption.
政府间气候变化专门委员会（Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change，简称IPCC）和国际能源署（International Energy Agency，简称IEA）最近表示，有越来越多的证据证明，低成本高能效的技术通常会促使能源消耗量加速增长。它们断定，能源效率更高的新技术所节省的能源，可能会促使能源消耗出现显著的“反弹”或增长。这意味着，节省的能源中，有很大比例会被新增的能源消耗抵消。
The I.E.A. and I.P.C.C. estimate that the rebound could be over 50 percent globally. Recent estimates and case studies have suggested that in many energy-intensive sectors of developing economies, energy-saving technologies may backfire, meaning that increased energy consumption associated with lower energy costs because of higher efficiency may in fact result in higher energy consumption than there would have been without those technologies.
IEA和IPCC估计，在全球范围内，反弹率可能会超过50%。最近的估计数据和案例研究说明，在发展中国家的很多能源密集型产业里，节能技术或许会带来事与愿违的效果——高能效促使能源成本降低，进而促进能源消耗增长，这实际上可能会导致能源消耗量超过没有采用这些技术时的消耗量。