With cities like New York and Miami in the midst of another luxury condominium boom, developers seem to be tripping over one another in the scramble to announce their latest projects, and to stand out from the pack, they are locked in an escalating game of one-upmanship.
由于纽约和迈阿密这些城市，正处于另一波建造豪华共管公寓(condominium)的浪潮中，房地产开发商们一边争先恐后地宣布他们那些最新的项目，一边暗中较劲、你争我夺。于是，为了从同行之中脱颖而出，他们纷纷卷入了一场逐渐白热化的强手游戏之中。
In a market where amenities like golf simulators and children’s playrooms barely raise a well-manicured eyebrow, the stakes are high. Add to this the fact that developers are asking buyers to shell out upward of $10 million for apartments that are, in many cases, still just a dirt pile on the ground, and they have no choice but to bring the razzle-dazzle.
那些虚拟高尔夫球场和儿童娱乐室之类的设施，几乎难以令高端买家动容，处于这样的市场当中，房地产开发的风险自然居高不下。雪上加霜的是，开发商们往往要买家们掏出上千万美元，来购买多数情况下尚且只是一堆土的公寓。所以，他们别无选择，只能使出一些令人眼花缭乱的招式。
Increasingly, the trick they are most often pulling out of their collective hat is art, with a capital A.
逐渐，他们从自己那顶万花筒般的帽子里最常变出的戏法，就是艺术——名符其实的艺术。
In Miami, for example, the developer of a beachfront condominium on Collins Avenue has commissioned a sculptor, whose pieces have sold for more than $500,000, to create original works for every buyer in the building. Another Miami developer has hired the painter and Academy Award-nominated director Julian Schnabel to design a sales center for its condominium, with rose-colored stucco and sawtooth lamps. In Midtown Manhattan, a developer is making a pointed effort to stand out by placing a permanent 40-story LED light installation on the building’s facade, while others have taken to hiring art consultants just as they would architects and construction companies.
例如在迈阿密市，一栋位于柯林斯大道(Collins Avenue)的海滨共管公寓楼的开发商，就已委托一位作品售价超过50万美元（约合人民币311万元）的雕塑家，来为这栋楼的每位买家制作一些原创的艺术品。另一家迈阿密开发商则聘请了荣获学院奖(Academy Award，又名奥斯卡奖——译注)提名的导演兼画家朱利安・施纳贝尔(Julian Schnabel)，为他们建造的一栋共管公寓楼设计一个带有玫瑰色灰泥粉饰和锯齿状台灯的售楼中心。而在曼哈顿的中城区，一家开发商在某栋大楼的外立面上，安装了一个高达40层楼的永久LED灯光设备，通过这种锋芒毕露的做法博得出位。其他一些开发商也都纷纷开始聘请艺术顾问，就像他们会聘请建筑师和建筑公司一样。
“There is a very strong art market right now, with a much more diverse and large collector base than at any other time I can remember,” said Yvonne Force Villareal, a founder of the nonprofit Art Production Fund. She and a business partner, Doreen Remen, recently started Culture Corps, a for-profit art consulting business that advises real estate developers. The expanded art collector base has resulted in more buyers of high-end condos wanting artwork to be part of the experience of shopping for a new home.
“现在的艺术品市场非常旺盛，而且形形色色有实力的收藏家群体，也比我记忆中以往任何时候都要多得多，”一家名为“艺术品基金”(Art Production Fund)的非盈利组织的创始人伊冯·福斯·维拉里尔(Yvonne Force Villareal)说。她与一位商业伙伴多琳·雷曼(Doreen Remen)刚刚成立了一家盈利性质的顾问公司Culture Corps，来为房地产开发商们提供建议。数量大增的艺术品收藏者群体，已经带来了更多高端共管公寓的买家，他们都想让艺术品成为自己新家选购过程中的部分考量。
“Those who invest in high-end luxury homes also tend to have a strong knowledge of art,” said Helidon Xhixha, an Albanian-born artist who has shown his work at Art Basel Miami Beach, and who recently sold a piece titled “The Wall” to a private art collector for more than $540,000. The developers Property Markets Group and S2 Development hired Mr. Xhixha to create sculptures tailored to each buyer at Muse, a 68-unit condominium in the Sunny Isles neighborhood of Miami.
“那些投资高端豪华住宅的人，一般也具有扎实的艺术修养，”一位出生于阿尔巴尼亚的艺术家希利顿·柯西卡(Helidon Xhixha)说，他已经在迈阿密海滩巴塞尔艺术博览会(Art Basel Miami Beach)上展出了自己的作品，并刚把一件名为“墙”(The Wall)的作品，以超过54万美元（约合人民币336万元）的价格售予一位私人艺术品收藏家。开发商Property Markets Group与S2 Development，已聘请柯西卡为Muse大楼的每一位买家量身定制他们的雕像。那是迈阿密阳光群岛(Sunny Isles)社区中的一栋有68个单元的共管公寓楼。
While some may consider it selling out for artists to create pieces as part of a condominium marketing effort, Mr. Xhixha said, “I do not see this as over-commercializing my art. On the contrary, I see a collaboration between buyer and artist.” Mr. Xhixha added that an apartment tower filled with his pieces “will be like having my very own private museum.”
虽然有些人可能会认为，把创作作品当成一栋共管公寓楼市场营销的一部分，是艺术家的自我出卖，但柯西卡说，“我没有把这看成是让我的艺术作品过度商业化。恰恰相反，我看到了买家与艺术家之间的通力合作。”柯西卡还说，一栋公寓楼中到处都是他的作品，“就像拥有了我自己的私人博物馆。”
For the Chetrit Group and Clipper Equity, the developers converting the former Flatotel at 135 West 52nd Street into 109 condo units, “we wanted to create something that gave the building an identity, that gave us some notoriety,” said Raphael De Niro, a broker at Douglas Elliman Development Marketing, who is representing the building. “People like to be able to talk about their building and have others know it, for people to feel they live somewhere unique.” The developers hired Thierry Dreyfus, the lighting designer who lit up the Grand Palais in Paris and the Château de Versailles, to create the 423-foot installation that will be placed inside a casing attached to the front of the building.
切崔特集团(Chetrit Group)与Clipper Equity这两家开发商，把西52街135号的前富来特尔酒店(Flatotel)改造成了一栋带有109套公寓单元的共管公寓楼。对于他们而言，“我们想创造出某种可以赋予这栋大楼一种身份的东西，某种可以让我们变得人尽皆知的东西，”代理这栋大楼的道格拉斯·艾丽曼房产营销公司(Douglas Elliman Development Marketing)的一位经纪人拉斐尔·德尼罗(Raphael De Niro)说，“人们希望能够谈论他们所住的大楼，并让别人知道那个地方，就为了让人们感觉自己住在某个独特之处。”这两家开发商聘请了蒂埃里•德雷弗斯(Thierry Dreyfus)，也就是那位照亮了巴黎大皇宫(Grand Palais)和凡尔赛宫(Château de Versailles)的灯光设计师，来制作这个长达423英尺（约129米）的装置。它将被安装在一个保护壳中，附加在这栋建筑物的正立面上。
Farther downtown, Culture Corps is consulting on the sales center for 30 Park Place, the condominium designed by Robert A.M. Stern Architects that will also feature a Four Seasons hotel. Culture Corps has chosen 11 pieces of art for the space, including works by established artists like Richard Serra and Sam Gordon, as well as by newcomers like Field Kallop. The developer, Silverstein Properties, bought a few of the works, while the others are on loan. “It is not the normal kind of art you would see in a model apartment,” said Ms. Villareal, who is married to the artist Leo Villareal. All abstract, the paintings “are very tasteful, but simultaneously they have an edge to them,” she said.
在更远一些的下城区，Culture Corps公司正在咨询关于公园广场30号(30 Park Place) 售楼中心的问题。这栋共管公寓楼由Robert A.M. Stern Architects建筑公司设计，还会主打一家四季酒店(Four Seasons hotel)。Culture Corps已经为这里挑选了11件艺术品，其中既有理查·塞拉(Richard Serra)和萨姆·戈登(Sam Gordon)这样一些功成名就的艺术家，也有菲尔德·卡洛浦( Field Kallop)这类艺术界的新人。开发商兆华斯坦(Silverstein Properties)买下了这些作品中的几件，其余则采取了借用的办法。“这不是你在某套现代公寓中会看见的那种普通艺术品，”嫁给了艺术家莱昂·维拉里尔(Leo Villareal)的维拉里尔说，这些画作全是抽象艺术，“非常有品位，但同时，它们本身也是一种优势。”她说。
The commingling of art and real estate has a long, established history, beginning with the cathedrals of Europe, which commissioned religious art. The Medici family in Italy hired artists to create works for their many estates, while in modern times, art has played a role in places like the Seagram Building, with its famed tapestry by Pablo Picasso. Perhaps it isn’t so surprising that in this era, which some have termed the new Gilded Age, the worlds of art and real estate have once again begun to merge.
艺术品与房地产的结合由来已久，最初始于欧洲的那些天主教堂，那里承载着许多宗教艺术品。意大利的美第奇家族(Medici family)就曾聘请过许多艺术家，为他们众多的房产进行艺术创作；而到了现代社会，艺术品依然在某些地方扮演着重要角色，比如那栋拥有毕加索著名织锦画的西格拉姆大厦(Seagram Building)。也许，在当今这个被称为“新镀金年代”(new Gilded Age)的时代中，艺术与房地产的世界已经再次开始融合。
Mr. Schnabel, who created the interiors of the Gramercy Park Hotel and built Palazzo Chupi, a pink condominium in the West Village, is no stranger to this connection. “The idea of living with art is a good thing, not necessarily a scam,” he told me recently. “Obviously, when something is popular they can turn that into something trendy, but it has a historical precedent.”
施纳贝尔这位装修过葛莱美西公园酒店(Gramercy Park Hotel)、并在西村(West Village)建造了一栋粉红色共管公寓楼Palazzo Chupi的建筑师，对艺术与房地产的这种结合，并不感到陌生。“与艺术共存是一种很好的想法，而并非一种骗局，”他最近对我说，“显而易见，某种东西受到欢迎的时候，他们就能使其成为潮流，这是有历史先例的。”