PARIS — President François Hollande of France on Monday awarded the Legion of Honor, France’s highest award, to three Americans and a Briton for their role in stopping a gunman on a high-speed train traveling to Paris from Amsterdam on Friday.
法国总统奥朗德周一向三名美国人和一名英国人授予法国荣誉军团勋章，以表彰上周五他们在一辆由阿姆斯特丹驶往巴黎的高铁列车上制服一名枪手的英勇行为。
The three Americans — Airman First Class Spencer Stone, 23; Alek Skarlatos, 22, a specialist in the Oregon National Guard; and their friend Anthony Sadler, 23 — received the honor in the gilded halls of the Élysée Palace, where they were joined by Chris Norman, 62, a British consultant.
三名美国人-23岁的美国空军一等兵斯宾塞·斯通、22岁的俄勒冈国民警卫队队员阿莱克·斯卡拉托斯和他们的朋友23岁的安东尼·萨德勒在爱丽舍宫富丽堂皇的大厅内接受了这份荣誉，同样被授勋的还有62随的克里斯·诺曼，他是一名英国顾问。
“One need only know that Ayoub El Khazzani was in possession of 300 rounds of ammunition and firearms to understand what we narrowly avoided, a tragedy, a massacre,” Mr. Hollande said at the ceremony, referring to the suspect in the attack, a Moroccan who is in police custody and denies that he had planned to stage a terrorist attack.
“人们需要知道的是卡萨尼携带了300发弹药和枪支，我们侥幸避免了一场悲剧和大屠杀。”奥朗德在仪式上谈及这次袭击的疑犯时这样说道，这名摩洛哥人此前已被警方列管并且拒绝承认他策划发动恐怖袭击。
“Your heroism must be an example for many and a source of inspiration,” Mr. Hollande added. “Faced with the evil of terrorism, there is a good, that of humanity. You are the incarnation of that.”
“你们的英雄行为必须成为众人的榜样和精神鼓舞的源泉。”奥朗德又补充道。“面对恐怖主义的邪恶，这是一种善良的人性，你们是它的化身。”
After his speech, Mr. Hollande pinned the Legion of Honor medal on the three Americans, who wore khaki slacks and polo shirts, bringing a casual touch to the ornate ceremony. Airman Stone, whose thumb was severely cut by the gunman, still had his left arm in a sling as well as a bruised eye.
讲话结束后奥朗德为三名美国人颁发荣誉军团勋章，三人身穿卡其色便裤和马球衫，给这场华丽的仪式带来一份休闲的触觉。空军士兵宾塞·斯通的大拇指被枪手严重割伤，左手臂依然绑着吊带，并且一只眼睛青肿。
The three friends were on a tour of Europe that included stops in France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain. They had intended to spend Friday night in Amsterdam but changed their minds and boarded a high-speed Thalys train to Paris. Shortly after the train crossed the Belgian border into France, they heard a shot, saw a gunman with an AK-47 and rushed to stop him.
这三名朋友当时正在一次沿途包括法国、德国、意大利、荷兰和西班牙的欧洲旅行中。他们本打算周五晚在阿姆斯特丹过夜，但随后改变了主意并登上了一辆开往巴黎的高铁。列车刚驶过比利时边境进入法国时，他们听到一声枪响，看到一名手持AK-47步枪的枪手，随即冲过去制服了他。
A French citizen who was the first to tackle Mr. Khazzani but who has declined to be identified will receive the honor at a later date, as will Mark Moogalian, 51, a passenger with dual French and American citizenship who struggled with the attacker and is recovering from a bullet wound.
一名第一时间阻止卡萨尼的法国公民希望匿名，他将会在晚些时候授勋，享受同样待遇的还有51岁的马克·穆噶利安，他拥有法国和美国双重国籍，在与枪手的搏斗中受到枪伤，目前正在接受治疗。
The courageous responses to the presence of a gunman drew attention and praise from around the world, especially in France, where many quickly encouraged Mr. Hollande to award the men the Legion of Honor, which was created by Napoleon Bonaparte in 1802 to reward “outstanding merit.” Several senior officials, including Prime Minister Manuel Valls and the head of the French rail company, attended the ceremony on Monday.
这种面对枪手勇敢的反应引起了全世界范围内的关注和赞赏，特别是在法国，许多人迅速支持奥朗德向这些人授予荣誉军团勋章。法国荣誉军团勋章1802年由拿破仑创设，为表彰杰出贡献者。包括首相曼纽尔·瓦尔斯和法国铁路公司头脑在内的多位高级官员参加了周一的授勋仪式。
Mr. Norman, speaking in French to reporters after the ceremony, said he felt honored by the distinction. “I did what I had to do,” he said. “It wasn’t heroism, it was what needed to be done in a situation of survival.”
诺曼在授勋仪式后接受记者采访时用法语说道他深感荣幸，“我做了我应该做的”他说，“这不是英雄行为，这是在争取生存的情况下必须要做的。”
The three Americans did not speak publicly on Monday, but at a news conference on Sunday at the American ambassador’s residence, they brushed aside suggestions that they were heroes and framed their actions as having come from survival instincts.
三名美国人在周一并没有公开发言，不过周日在美国大使住地举行的新闻发布会上他们表示自己算不上是英雄，并解释自己的行为是出自生存本能。
On Monday, the three grinned as they posed for photographs with Mr. Hollande and the American ambassador, Jane D. Hartley, on the steps of the Élysée Palace. After the ceremony, the three men and their families were expected to meet staff members at the United States Embassy, near the presidential palace.
周一三人在爱丽舍宫内与奥朗德及美国大使哈特利合照时面露微笑。仪式结束后三人和他们的家人将在离总统府不远处的美国大使馆与使馆工作人员会面。
The upbeat mood will do little, however, to dispel growing unease in Europe about how to deal with new threats to targets like trains and how to monitor thousands of potential suspects, especially radical Islamist militants returning from Syria.
然而乐观的情绪对消除欧洲日益增加的不安并没有太大作用，这些不安包括如何应对针对火车等目标的威胁以及如何监视上千的潜在嫌犯，特别是从叙利亚回来的激进伊斯兰武装分子。
“Faced with terrorism, our societies are not weak,” Mr. Hollande said at the ceremony. “And they will never be weak as long as they stay united, and as long as there are brave women and men ready to risk their lives.”
“面对恐怖分子，我们的社会并不软弱。”奥朗德在授勋仪式上表示，“但只要人们团结一致，只要有勇敢的人愿意冒着生命危险他们就不会软弱。”
While only French citizens can be members of the Order of the Legion of Honor, foreigners can receive the medal, which has also been awarded to the novelist Toni Morrison and the actor Clint Eastwood. Airman Stone, Mr. Skarlatos, Mr. Sadler and Mr. Norman were made knights of the order, the lowest of five ranks.
通常只有法国公民才能成为荣誉军团勋章级别内的成员，外国人只能被授予勋章，例如此前被授予过勋章的小说家托妮·莫里森和演员克林特·伊斯特伍德，然而斯通、斯卡拉托斯、萨德勒和诺曼被授予五个级别里最低一级的“骑士”荣誉官阶。
Mr. Sadler was expected to return to the United States this week to begin his senior year at California State University, Sacramento. Airman Stone said on Sunday that he and Mr. Skarlatos would travel to Germany with their families and would receive further medical care there.
萨德勒计划本周返回美国开始他在加州萨克拉门托州立大学的大四学年。空军士兵斯通周日表示他和斯卡拉托斯将和他们的家人前往德国旅行并在当地接受进一步的医疗护理。