KYOTO, Japan — Growing up in Kuala Lumpur, the capital of Malaysia, Leonnie Lim was obsessed by Japanese pop culture. She did not know why but she knew she wanted to live and study one day in Japan.
日本京都——在马来西亚首都吉隆坡长大的莱奥尼·林(Leonnie Lim)痴迷于日本流行文化。她不知道痴迷的原因，但她知道自己希望有一天能在日本生活、学习。
“At the age of seven, I requested my father to buy me a Japanese dictionary,” she said. “I self-learned Japanese, watching anime and manga.”
“7岁的时候，我让爸爸给我买了一本日语字典，”她说，“我看动漫和漫画，自学了日语。”
By the time she was ready for university, she had developed a comprehensive interest in Japanese history, culture and art. She chose to go to Doshisha University in Kyoto, where she is majoring in Japanese studies and global culture.
到她准备上大学的时候，她已经对日本历史、文化和艺术产生了广泛的兴趣。她选择前往京都同志社大学(Doshisha University)学习日语和全球文化。
“This is where I feel close to the cultural and historical heart of Japan,” said Ms. Lim, now 20.
20岁的莱奥尼说，“在这里，我感觉自己贴近了日本的文化及历史中心。”
Her choice resonates with a growing number of international students who are opting to study in Kyoto, Japan’s ancient capital, surrounded by historic temples and shrines, traditional art and crafts industries, and an abundance of nature. The number of foreign students in the city rose to 7,017 last year from 5,157 in 2009, according to an interuniversity body in Kyoto that compiles statistics. The figure of foreign students in Kyoto rose even as the number for Japan as a whole slipped to 135,000, from a peak of 141,000 in 2010.
与她一样，越来越多的国际学生选择到日本古都京都学习，京都周围有很多古庙、神社，传统工艺品企业，以及丰富的自然景观。据京都一家编制数据的校际机构透露，京都的外国学生去年达到了7017名，而2009年的人数为5157名。日本的外国学生从2010年的峰值——14.1万名降至13.5万名，而京都的外国学生人数却仍在增加。
According to another agency, the Japan Student Services Organization, Kyoto, despite its relatively small size, had the fourth-largest population of foreign students in Japan last year, behind Tokyo — which was host to nearly half the total — Osaka and Fukuoka.
据京都的日本学生支援机构(Japan Student Services Organization)透露，尽管京都的城市规模相对较小，去年，该市的外国学生人数仅次于东京、大阪和福冈，排名第四。在日本，将近一半的外国学生都在东京学习。
Kyoto’s lure is a mix of its geography and its unique place in Japan’s cultural, historical and educational landscape, students say.
学生们说，京都的魅力在于其地理位置，以及它在日本文化、历史及教育领域中的独特地位。
With a population of 1.47 million, the city is famed for tourist sites including ancient castles and the grounds of the Imperial Palace; its cutting-edge Manga museum; its concentration of world-class technology companies such as Nintendo, Kyocera and Omron; and for the environmental conference that it hosted in 1997. It is less well known for being a college town, yet there are over 50 colleges and universities in and around the city — making it rather like Boston, with which it has been linked in a sister city program for over half a century.
京都有147万人口，有很多闻名于世的地方——古堡、皇家宫殿等旅游景点；先进的漫画博物馆；汇聚在这里的任天堂(Nintendo)、京瓷(Kyocera)和欧姆龙(Omron)等世界一流的技术公司；该市曾在1997年举办的环境大会。很多人并不知道，京都是一个大学城，该市及周边地区共有50多所学院和大学——这使它与波士顿颇为相像，在过去半个世纪中，京都与波士顿是姐妹城市。
“Tokyo might be the best place to live, but Kyoto is the best place to study,” said Hsin Shih, 25, a student from Vancouver, Canada.
来自加拿大温哥华的学生辛施（Hsin Shih，音译）说，“东京可能是最适合居住的地方，但京都是最适合学习的地方。”辛施现年25岁。
Located in the Kansai region at the center of Honshu, Japan’s largest island, Kyoto and its neighboring cities Osaka and Kobe together make up the second-largest economic hub in Japan, after Tokyo. But unlike Tokyo, Kyoto is compact and tightly defined, not sprawling.
京都位于日本最大岛屿本州岛中部的关西地区，与邻近城市大阪和神户一起构成了仅次于东京的日本第二大经济中心。但与东京不同，京都属于紧凑型的城市，有着严格界定的界限，不是一个无序扩展的城市。
“Kyoto is a city and a village at the same time,” said Evdoxia Kyropoulou, 28, a graduate student from Thessaloniki, Greece, who is studying Japanese cinema at Kyoto University of Art and Design. “You ride the bicycle and you literally hit the mountains in 20 minutes,” in almost any direction, she added.
来自希腊塞萨洛尼基的研究生埃夫佐克夏·基罗普卢(Evdoxia Kyropoulou)说，“京都既是城市又是村庄。”28岁的基罗普卢在京都造型艺术大学(Kyoto University of Art and Design)学习日本电影。她还表示，“实际上，无论朝哪个方向走，骑自行车20分钟就能到达山区。”
Grace Henahan, a second-year American student at Doshisha, agreed. “Tokyo is so huge,” she said. “Kyoto is a more manageable city. It is not too loud, not too urban. I really like temples and shrines all over Kyoto and you don’t have to try hard to look for them.”
在同志社大学读大二的美国学生格雷丝·赫纳汉(Grace Henahan)同意上述观点。“东京太大了，”她说，“京都是一个比较容易接纳的城市。不是太吵，不是过于城市化。我真的很喜欢京都各处的庙宇和神社，不用费力就能看到它们。”
Yet if it maintains a small-town feeling, Kyoto’s urban center is rich with night life. A multitude of bars and restaurants are embedded in small alleys, while the downtown Gion section has been the entertainment venue of choice for the rich and the powerful for centuries, famous for its traditional banquet houses and its geishas, known locally as maiko, or dance girls.
尽管京都保留了一种小城镇的感觉，但其市中心的夜生活非常丰富。小巷里有很多酒吧和餐馆，多个世纪以来，位于市中心的祗园一直是权势人物的娱乐场所，这里以其传统宴会厅及艺妓——当地人称之为舞妓——而闻名。
The compact, tightly woven feel of the city has academic advantages. “In Tokyo, you get too distracted,” said Kenji Yanobe, an artist and professor at the art and design university, whose recent work includes a nearly 24-foot baby-faced giant clad in a metal robotic suit, one of a series of robotic giants conceived as a commentary on Japan’s dark nuclear history, from Hiroshima and Nagasaki to Fukushima.
由于这种紧凑、紧密编织的感觉，这座城市在学术上有着诸多优势。“在东京，你太容易分心了，”造型艺术大学的艺术家、教授贤治矢延(Kenji Yanobe)说。他最近的作品包括一个将近24英尺（约合7.3米）高的巨人，它拥有婴儿的面庞，身穿一套金属制成的机器人服装，属于一个巨型机器人系列。这些机器人反映的是日本黑暗的核历史，从广岛、长崎，到福岛。
Artists have a better chance of being noticed in Kyoto, he added, as Tokyo has too many galleries vying for attention.
艺术家们在京都引发关注的可能性更大，他接着说，因为东京渴望引起注意的画廊太多了。
Zhang Hanyuan, a Chinese graduate student who is under the tutelage of Mr. Yanobe, agreed that Kyoto’s intimate scale helped to foster close working relationships. “I was shocked by his art,” he said of Mr. Yanobe’s work, adding that under his teacher’s influence he now dreamed of critiquing Chinese consumerism and materialism in his own sculptures.
张翰元（音译）是贤治矢延正在指导的一个中国研究生。他也认为，京都的较小规模有助于营造密切的合作关系。“他的艺术作品曾让我感到震撼，”张翰元提到贤治矢延的作品时说。他说，在老师的影响下，他现在梦想着用自己的雕塑来抨击中国的消费主义和物质主义。
Daisaku Kadokawa, the city’s mayor and a former head of its municipal education board, is pushing strongly to bring more foreign students to Kyoto. “For over 1,000 years, we have nurtured and incubated culture, the arts, the crafts and manufacturing, and various studies and research,” he said. “It is highly relevant to have people from all over the world to come and study together in this historic environment.”
京都市长、前京都市教育委员会教育长门川大作(Daisaku Kadokawa)正在大力推动更多国际学生选择京都。“1000多年来，我们已经培育和发展了文化、艺术、工艺品制造，以及各种调查和研究，”他说，“让来自世界各地的人们在这个历史悠久的环境下共同学习，有很大的意义。”