LAS VEGAS — The clatter of 200 Rubik’s Cubes twisting in unison filled the ballroom at the Riviera hotel and casino here on Saturday as Riley Woo, 15, stepped to the stage.
拉斯维加斯——上周六，当十五岁的赖利·吴(Riley Woo)走向舞台时，200个魔方同时打乱的咔哒声响彻了里维埃拉赌场酒店(Riviera hotel and casino)的宴会厅。
Shick shick shick shick shick.
咔咔咔咔咔。
He took 1 minute 46 seconds to study a jumbled cube, then pulled a blindfold over his eyes and started to twist.
他花了1分46秒观察一个打乱的魔方，之后就拉上眼罩，开始拼。
Shick shick shick shick shick.
咔咔咔咔咔。
Forty-eight seconds later, Riley lifted his blindfold and smiled. He had solved the puzzle, in a total of just over 2 minutes 34 seconds; not bad. Across the table, his father stopped filming and give him a thumbs-up.
48秒后，赖利拉开眼罩，笑了。他总共只用了2分34秒多一点就拼好了这个魔方；表现不错。桌子对面，他的父亲停止了摄影，对他竖起了大拇指。
“I just memorized each color, and then based on that, like, you already know how to solve it, based on where each color is,” Riley said afterward.
赖利后来说，“我只是记住了每个颜色所在的位置，以此为基础来拼，开始拼的时候就已经想好了根据各色目前位置复原魔方的步骤。”
In the 38 years since the Hungarian architecture professor Erno Rubik invented his cube, it has alternately been regarded as an object of fun, art, mathematics, nostalgia and frustration. Some credit its enduring fame to its universality — it requires no instructions or cultural context — and some to its complexity. What other child’s toy could so befuddle an M.I.T. grad student?
在匈牙利建筑学教授艾尔诺·鲁比克(Erno Rubik)发明魔方之后的38年间，魔方曾先后被当做玩具、艺术品、数学用具、怀旧物品，还曾是挫败感的象征。有人认为，魔方长盛不衰是基于它的大众性——不需要任何说明或文化语境，有些人则认为是因为它的复杂性。还有什么儿童玩具能让麻省理工学院(M.I.T.)的毕业生都如此为难呢？
It is an object that “sets its own challenge,” Mr. Rubik said via e-mail. “Anybody blessed with the basic human senses can instantly ‘get it.’ ”As a primary-colored offspring of the 1980s, the cube will forever be linked with fads like Pac-Man, neon leggings and Cyndi Lauper. Unlike those fascinations, the Rubik’s Cube is enjoying a resurgence of popularity and, in a world increasingly run by engineers and algorithms, relevance.
魔方是一种“为自己设置挑战”的东西，鲁比克在一封电子邮件中说。“每个拥有基本人类感官的人立刻就能‘知道怎么玩。’”作为一种涂着原色的20世纪80年代产物，魔方将永远和当时的一些流行物事联系在一起，比如“吃豆人”(Pac-Man) 、霓虹色打底裤，以及辛迪·劳珀(Cyndi Lauper)。和这些流行物事不同，魔方正在重新流行起来，并在一个愈加被工程师和计算程序等控制的世界中重新占据重要地位。
“You can use Rubik’s Cube to teach engineering, you can use it to teach mathematics, and you can use it to talk about the interplay between design and engineering and mathematics and creativity,” said Paul Hoffman, president of the Liberty Science Center in Jersey City, where an exhibit planned for 2014 will honor the 40th anniversary of the cube. “I’m hoping the Rubik’s Cube will excite a new generation and get them into engineering.”
“魔方可以用来教工程学，也可以用来教数学，此外，它还可以用来阐述设计、工程学、数学和创造力之间的相互影响。”泽西城自由科学中心(Liberty Science Center)主任保罗·霍夫曼(Paul Hoffman)说。这个中心计划在2014年为魔方发明40周年举办一次纪念展览。“我希望，魔方能为新一代的人带来无穷乐趣，并引领他们走进工程设计领域。”
Judging by the crowd at the 2012 World Cube Association’s United States National Championship last weekend in Las Vegas, that excitement may be building. While a few older cubing icons, like Lars Petrus, the 1981 Swedish champion and creator of the Petrus Method (hint: build a 2-by-2-by-2 corner, then expand it outward), were on hand, nearly all the competitors were born decades after the cube’s heyday.
上周末在拉斯维加斯举办的“2012年世界魔方协会全美锦标赛(2012 World Cube Association’s United States National Championship)”人潮汹涌，由此可以看出，魔方正在为人们创造乐趣。几位旧时的魔方界偶像出席了此次比赛，其中包括1981年的瑞典冠军、彼得鲁斯法(提示：先解决一个2×2×2的角落，再将其向外扩散)的创立者拉斯·彼得鲁斯(Lars Petrus)，与此同时，本次比赛中几乎所有的参赛选手都出生于魔方鼎盛时期的数十年之后。
And while most seemed to consider it a hobby rather than occupational training, the mental benefits did not escape them.
虽然大多数人都把魔方当做一种兴趣爱好，而非一种职业训练，他们在精神上仍然获益良多。
“The maths of the cube, like group theory, don’t really apply to many things,” said Thom Barlow, 24, a programmer from Manchester, England, who develops systems for solving the cube as a hobby. “But it teaches you how to practice something. Your brain starts to realize, ‘Oh, I need to work on this,’ and that’s how you get better.”
“魔方所包含的数学原理，例如群论，适用范围并不算广，”来自英国曼彻斯特的24岁程序设计员汤姆·巴洛(Thom Barlow)说。设计破解魔方的相关程序是他的爱好。“但它能教会你，如何针对某些东西进行训练。你的大脑由此意识到，‘哦，我需要在这方面努力，’这样一来，你就能越变越好。”
There were speed solvers and blindfolded solvers and those who solve with their feet, though purists consider foot-solving an unbecoming gimmick. Boys outnumbered girls by at least 4 to 1; the youngest competitor was 5.
魔方选手中，有以速度见长的，有蒙着眼睛比赛的，还有用脚比赛的。然而，纯化论者却认为，用脚比赛只是一种不得体的花招。选手之中，男孩的数目超过了女孩，比例至少为4：1；最小的参赛选手只有5岁。
“Solving a Rubik’s Cube isn’t hard,” said Tyson Mao, one of the event’s organizers. “It’s not impressive that a 5-year-old would be smart enough to solve a Rubik’s Cube. It’s impressive that he would have the patience.”
“破解一个魔方并不难，”身为比赛组织者之一的毛台胜(Tyson Mao)说。“一个年仅5岁的小孩能聪明到拼好魔方并不令人惊奇。令人惊奇的是，他竟然有那种耐心。”
More than a story of puzzle fanatics or math geeks, the cube’s revival is a many-sided tale involving nostalgia, the Internet and the actor Will Smith.
魔方的再度流行绝不仅是关于解谜狂人或数学怪才的故事，而是一个与怀旧情结、互联网及演员威尔·史密斯(Will Smith)紧密相关的多面传奇。
Fifteen years ago, the cube “was in the closeout bin,” said Joe Sequino, a spokesman for Winning Moves, the company that shares cube-manufacturing responsibilities in America, with Hasbro. Despite selling more than 350 million units in the early 1980s, the cube had long since passed into memory for all but a handful of hard-core puzzlers.
“赢移动”(Winning Moves)的发言人乔·塞奎诺(Joe Sequino)说，15年前，魔方“都待在清仓大甩卖的箱子里”。这家公司和孩之宝(Hasbro)共同在美国生产魔方。虽然20世纪80年代早期，魔方的销量超过了3.5亿，但在之后，除了少数铁杆玩家以外，魔方早就被封存在了人们的记忆之中。
But with the advent of Web video, fans got an opportunity to share their solving strategies. A new generation of puzzlers started catching on, and in 2004, a group calling itself the World Cube Association held the first speed-cubing tournament in more than 20 years, attended by 89 participants. It has since become an annual event, with about 300 competing in Las Vegas.
网络视频的出现，让魔方爱好者拥有了分享自己魔方技巧的机会。新一代的魔方玩家开始涌现，2004年，一个自称世界魔方协会的团体举行了二十多年来的首届“速度魔方”锦标赛，共有89人参赛。从那时开始，魔方锦标赛就变成了一个年度赛事，此次前来拉斯维加斯参赛的约有300人。
Meanwhile, children of the 1980s began seeking out cubes for their own offspring — who, unlike their parents, were more likely to enjoy a fruitful relationship with the puzzle thanks to the online resources. In some places, the cube is now a schoolyard fad.
同时，20世纪80年代的那一代孩子开始为自己的孩子们寻找魔方——新一代的孩子又和自己的父母不一样，有了 网络资源，他们倾向于和魔方建立一种更加丰富多彩的关系。在有些地方，魔方已经成了校园新宠。
In 2006, Hollywood delivered the final pop-culture push: Will Smith’s brilliant but hard-luck character in “The Pursuit of Happyness“ solves a Rubik’s Cube in less than two minutes after seeing the toy for the first time.
2006年，好莱坞用流行文化的形式大力地推了魔方一把：《当幸福来敲门》(The Pursuit of Happyness)一片中，威尔·史密斯(Will Smith)饰演的角色虽聪明但运气欠佳，他只用了不到两分钟的时间就拼好了一个魔方，那还是在他第一次看到这种玩具的时候。
“That Rubik’s scene was in the trailer, and it blew up from there,” Mr. Sequino said in an e-mail. “It was the perfect confluence of events, with the movie and with a new generation 27 years later getting turned on to the cube.”
“玩魔方的场景出现在了预告片中， 魔方的魅力就是从那儿重新爆发的，” 塞奎诺在一封电子邮件中说。“各种事件完美地凑到了一起，27年后，电影和新一代人又开始关注魔方。”
Sales of the cube, which were negligible in 2000, peaked in 2008 at 15 million globally, and have leveled off since then. Recent years have seen the arrival of more challenging cubes, with as many as 6, 7 or even 10 squares across, as well as odd shapes, like triangles or a dodecahedron.
魔方在2000年的销售量微乎其微，2008年，其全球销售量达到了1500万的峰值，之后就一直趋平。近年来，出现了很多更有挑战性的魔方，有些魔方有六七阶，甚至十阶，还有些魔方拥有奇怪的形状，比如三角体或十二面体。
In the past 14 months, Rubik’s Cubes have been solved for the first time in space and atop Mount Everest. The American speed-cuber Anthony Michael Brooks — known for his one-handed solving — stars in a new Volkswagen commercial called “You Can’t Fake Fast.”
在过去的14个月中，人类第一次在太空和珠穆朗玛峰顶上拼好了魔方。以单手玩魔方著称的美国“速度魔方”玩家安东尼·迈克尔·布鲁克斯(Anthony Michael Brooks)出演了一部大众汽车新广告片，名为“速度不能作假。”
As part of its cube exhibit in 2014, the Liberty Science Center plans to build on its roof a 35-foot-tall cube made of lights that people can manipulate with their cellphones; it will be visible from Manhattan. Also on hand will be a $2.5 million cube made of diamonds, a giant walk-in cube where visitors can explore the inner workings of the puzzle and a wandering flock of cube-solving robots.
作为2014年魔方展览的一部分，自由科学中心计划在楼顶建造一个10米多高、由灯组成的魔方，人们可以用手机控制上面的灯；建成之后，人们从曼哈顿就能看见它。一个价值250万美元的钻石魔方也在计划之中，人们可以走进这个巨大的魔方，探索它的内部构造，观赏一群边玩魔方边来回走动的机器人。
And in a sign of how affectionately the cube is viewed in techie culture, Google in 2010 donated its computing resources to determine “God’s number,” the minimum number of moves required to solve the cube from any position, if one uses the most efficient method. In 1980, it was thought to be 52; Google’s computers place it at 20.
有件事情表明了高科技文化对魔方的巨大热情。2010年，谷歌(Google)贡献了一些电脑资源，目的是确定“上帝之数”。这个数字指的是拼好一个魔方所需的最少步骤数目，从任何角度来拼都可以，如果使用最高效的方法的话。1980年，人们认为这个数字是52，但谷歌的电脑却认为只需要20步。
At the end of the day Saturday, a few records had been set, including one by 16-year-old Deven Nadudvari of Monterey Park, Calif. He solved each of five different 3-by-3 cubes with one hand in an average 14.86 seconds, setting a North American record.
周六晚上，好几项纪录都被打破。其中一项纪录的刷新者是来自加利福尼亚州蒙特雷帕克的16岁少年德文·纳杜德沃里(Deven Nadudvari)。他用单手拼好了五个不同的3×3魔方，平均每个用时14.86秒，创造了北美地区的最高纪录。
Not that you have to be a budding engineer to enjoy all this. “Twisting the cube and getting faster at it, it’s a good feeling,” William Boards, 17, soon to be at Southern Methodist University, said while fiddling with a cube. “I don’t get that big a mathematics boost from it, but it’s a good healthy competition.
并不是只有少年工程师才能享受这些乐趣。“翻动魔方，而且速度越来越快，这样的感觉很好，” 即将成为南方卫理公会大学(Southern Methodist University)学生的威廉·博德斯(William Boards) 说，17岁的他手里还把玩着一个魔方。 “我的数学并没有从玩魔方中得到很大提高，但它的确是一项很好的健康竞赛。”