TEHRAN — Dozens of protesters hurled eggs and at least one shoe at President Hassan Rouhani as he returned to Tehran on Saturday after a groundbreaking phone call with President Obama and other outreach to the West at an annual gathering of world leaders at the United Nations.
德黑兰——伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)周六返回德黑兰后，数十名示威者向他投掷了鸡蛋，还有至少一只鞋。在此之前，鲁哈尼破天荒地与美国总统奥巴马通了一次电话，还在各国领导人在联合国(United Nations)举行的一年一度的大会上，向西方做出了其他示好的姿态。
The protest — coming even as supporters gathered at the airport to cheer his diplomatic outreach — quickly laid bare the political fissures in Iran over whether to engage with the United States, and the challenges Mr. Rouhani and his aides face as they try to have international sanctions over the country’s nuclear program lifted.
抗议发生之时，也有支持者聚集在机场，为他接触西方的外交举动欢呼。这种反差突显出，伊朗国内对于是否应该与美国接触存在政治分歧，而鲁哈尼和他的助手在努力解除国际社会的核计划制裁时，也面临着诸多挑战。
Mr. Rouhani was standing in his car, waving through the sunroof as he passed supporters when opponents began to pelt the vehicle. Security guards scrambled to shield the president with an umbrella as other protesters blocked the road by praying on the pavement.
经过支持者面前时，鲁哈尼站在车里，从车顶的天窗上探出身来，对民众挥手致意，此时反对者开始向他的汽车投掷东西。安保人员连忙用雨伞替总统遮挡，而同时其他一些在路面上祈祷的抗议者阻断了道路。
“Long live Rouhani, man of change!” the president’s backers shouted, as a small police contingent struggled to control the crowd of about 200 that seemed mostly to be Rouhani supporters. The hard-liners responded by shouting, “Our people are awake and hate America!”
鲁哈尼的支持者高呼，“代表变革的鲁哈尼万岁！”一小队警察艰难地控制着大约200名似乎是鲁哈尼支持者的人群。强硬派也同样高呼着回应道，“人民觉醒了，我们恨美国！”
Security guards eventually pulled Mr. Rouhani back inside his car as it sped off, leaving supporters and opponents behind, some pushing and shoving one another. One protester was almost run over after he threw himself in front of Mr. Rouhani’s car.
安保人员最终将鲁哈尼拉回车内，加速驶离，把支持者和反对者丢在了后面，一些人推搡了起来。一名示威者奔向鲁哈尼车前，差一点遭到碾压。
Iranians hoping for changes to end their country’s isolation have expressed excitement over the sudden turn of events last week, as Mr. Rouhani and his aides became the talk of the General Assembly.
渴望采取变革终结该国孤立局面的伊朗人，对上周突如其来的转向给予了激动的回应，鲁哈尼和他的助手们也成了联合国大会上众人谈论的话题。
The president’s more open stance is widely believed to have the support of the country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei — at least for now — but it remains unclear if powerful hard-line factions are ready for better relations with the United States after decades of animosity.
鲁哈尼较为开放的立场被普遍认为是得到了该国最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ali Khamenei)支持的，至少现在如此。但尚不清楚势力很大的强硬派系，在经历了数十年的敌对后，是否乐于接受关系的改善。
Analysts expressed surprise that the protest at the airport was allowed, given tight controls over public gatherings, and it raised the possibility that some in the country’s opaque political hierarchy were sending a message of displeasure over last week’s sudden turn of events.
考虑到公开集会在伊朗受到严格的控制，机场的示威活动得到许可让许多分析人士感到惊讶。这也体现出，该国并不透明的政治体系中，有人可能在表达对上周突如其来的转变的不满。
“This shows that those factions that do not want diplomatic flexibility and normalized relations with the world have started to organize themselves,” said Farshad Ghorbanpour, a political analyst close to the government.
接近政府的一位政治分析人士法沙德·古尔班普尔(Farshad Ghorbanpour)说，“这显示出，那些不希望采取灵活的外交姿态，不希望与世界实现关系正常化的派系，已经开始组织起来。”
The demonstrators said their protest was spontaneous, but such gatherings are often orchestrated in Iran and the number of police and plainclothes security guards sent to control the crowd on Saturday was unusually small.
示威者表示，他们的抗议活动是自发的，但在伊朗，这种公开聚集常常是有人策划组织的，而且周六被派去控制人群的警察和便衣安保人员少得反常。
The phone call with Mr. Obama came just days after Mr. Rouhani skipped a luncheon at the United Nations where the two leaders had been expected to shake hands. But a meeting on Thursday between Secretary of State John Kerry and his Iranian counterpart, Mohammad Javad Zarif, was described as constructive and led Iranian officials to contact the White House on Friday to suggest the phone call, American officials said.
与奥巴马通电话数天前，鲁哈尼在联合国略过了一场午餐会，按照预期在那个场合两国领导人本来应该握手。但白宫官员表示，周四美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)与伊朗外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)的一次会晤，据称很有建设性，这促使伊朗官员周五联系白宫，提出要通电话。
Mr. Rouhani received the phone call from Mr. Obama as he was on his way to Kennedy Airport on Friday; it was the first contact between American and Iranian presidents since before the hostage crisis more than 30 years ago.
周五，鲁哈尼在前往肯尼迪机场途中，接到了奥巴马的电话。这是从人质危机之前算起的30多年里，美伊两国领导人的第一次联系。
In comments after his arrival in Tehran, Mr. Rouhani elaborated on the call. “Yesterday as we were getting ready to head to the airport, the White House called and expressed willingness to set up a phone call between the American president and me,” the semiofficial Fars News agency quoted Mr. Rouhani as saying.
在抵达德黑兰后发表的评论中，鲁哈尼详细讲述了这次通话。半官方的法尔斯通讯社(Fars News Agency)援引鲁哈尼的话说，“昨天我们正在准备前往机场时，白宫打来电话，表达了安排美国总统与我通话的意愿。”
“A call was made to our ambassador’s cellphone,” Mr. Rouhani said. “The conversation mostly focused on the nuclear issue.”
“电话打到了大使的手机上，”鲁哈尼说，“通话主要关注于核问题。”
The Iranian president also addressed the question of why he had not met in person with Mr. Obama.
鲁哈尼还谈到了他为什么没有亲自与奥巴马会面的问题。
“A meeting between the two presidents needs some preparation, and since the ground was not prepared, this meeting did not take place,” Fars quoted Mr. Rouhani as saying.
法尔斯援引鲁哈尼的话说，“两国总统会晤需要一些准备工作，由于场地没有准备好，所以没有举行会晤。”
Fars reported that the foreign minister would go before Parliament this week to explain the diplomatic process that led to the phone call. Hard-liners are likely to watch closely for who reached out first.
法尔斯报道，外交部长本周将前往议会解释此次电话通话的外交程序。强硬派可能会密切关注是谁先提议通话的。
Many Iranians, including many at the airport Saturday, have appeared anxious for some outreach to the West as strict sanctions have crippled their economy.
由于严厉的制裁拖垮了经济，因此许多伊朗人，包括许多周六在机场聚集的人，似乎都迫切地盼望向西方做出一些示好举动。
“Welcome, lord of peace,” read a placard held by a woman in a colorful scarf.
一名戴着彩色头巾的妇女举着的牌子上写道，“和平阁下，欢迎您。”
Another woman, a 50-year-old fashion designer who agreed to give only her first name, Vida, said she had come to show support for the president.
另一名妇女、现年50岁的服装设计师韦妲(Vida)说，她来这里是为了向总统表示支持。她只愿意透露自己的名，不愿透露姓氏。
“This time our country will really change,” she said. “I am sure of it.”
“这一次我们的国家真的会转变，”她说，“我敢肯定。”
Her daughter, wearing purple lipstick — Mr. Rouhani’s campaign color during the June elections — yelled, “Long live reforms!”
她的女儿涂着紫色的唇膏，紫色是鲁哈尼在6月的大选中竞选时的主打色。她高呼着，“改革万岁！”
Down the road, protesters held placards saying, “We will never be humiliated” and “Talks to U.S. will not solve any problem.”
在街上不远处，抗议者则举着“我们绝不接受羞辱”和“同美国谈判不会解决任何问题”的标语牌。
“We are here because we hate America, and Iran will never have relations with America,” said a man who declined to be identified. “Rouhani must listen to us.”
“我们来这里是因为我们痛恨美国，伊朗绝不会与美国产生关系，”一名不愿透露姓名的男子说，“鲁哈尼一定要听听我们在说什么。”
As the president’s car drove off, one man shook his head in despair.
鲁哈尼的汽车开走后，一名男子绝望地摇着头。
“Why must everything always be destroyed?” he asked. “The whole world is looking at us, and now people are throwing eggs at our president.”
“为什么总是要把什么都毁掉？”他问道，“整个世界都在关注我们，可是却有人朝我们的总统丢鸡蛋。”