Iranians went to the polls on Friday in what turned out to be — against all expectations — a peaceful, if not entirely fair, presidential election.
上周五，伊朗人开始投票。出乎所有人的意料，总统选举的过程平静，甚至可以说是完全公正的。
The international media, analysts and even Western government officials had dismissed the election in advance as a farce, with the outcome to be determined by only one man — Ayatollah Ali Khamenei — or saw it as a tightly controlled contest among a half-dozen handpicked, indistinguishable candidates servile to the supreme leader’s wishes.
国际媒体、分析师，甚至是西方国家的政府官员早就将这场选举嗤为闹剧，其结果不过是由一个人——阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)——决定，或将它视为一场严格把控的竞争，几个候选人经过精心挑选，却都是面目模糊、屈从于最高领袖的意志。
Many Iranians, too, initially saw their elections in much the same way.
很多伊朗人一开始也以这种方式看待他们的选举。
But people have a funny way of defying expectations, sometimes even their own. The contest was not without meaning for a population suffering from runaway inflation, double-digit unemployment and a stifling political and social atmosphere, to say nothing of international isolation and the burdensome economic sanctions that have been imposed on them.
然而，人们总是会以一种有趣的方式挑战预言，有时候甚至是他们自己的预言。在伊朗，恶性通胀、两位数的失业率和沉闷的政治社会环境令人们不堪其苦，更不用说国际社会的孤立和施加给他们的经济制裁，在这种背景之下，这场角逐不可谓毫无意义。
Despite the narrow field of candidates, voters ultimately knew that they did have a choice between the status quo and change, however modest that change might appear to foreign observers. In unexpectedly huge numbers, voters from across the social spectrum chose change in the person of Hassan Rowhani, a mild-mannered cleric and former chief negotiator for Iran’s nuclear program under the reformist president Mohammad Khatami.
尽管候选人是在小范围内产生的，但选民最终认识到，他们是可以在维持现状和寻求变革之间做出选择的，不论这种变革在外国观察家的眼中是多么微不足道。出人意料地，来自社会各界的大量选民选择了代表变革的哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rowhani)，他是一位举止温和的神职人员，曾在改革派总统穆罕默德·哈塔米(Mohammad Khatami)当政时期担任伊朗核项目的首席谈判代表。
Although Ayatollah Khamenei has final say on the issues that most concern the West, Rowhani’s victory is cause for optimism among Iranians, and should be seen as a source of hope for the world at large, as the Obama administration rightly, albeit mutedly, has noted. The White House chief of staff, Denis McDonough, hinted at this on Sunday, saying that if Rowhani is interested in “mending relations with the rest of the world, as he has said in his campaign events, there is an opportunity to do that.” But he added that this would require Iran “to come clean on this illicit nuclear program.”
阿亚图拉·哈梅内伊在此问题上拥有最终决定权，这是令西方国家最担心的，然而鲁哈尼的胜利给伊朗人带来了乐观的情绪，正如奥巴马政府曾正确却又模糊指出的，总体上来说，全世界应该从此事中看到希望。白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·麦克多诺(Denis McDonough)周日做出了这样的暗示，他表示，如果鲁哈尼有意“像他在竞选活动中说的那样，修复与世界其他国家的关系，现在就有这个机会。”但他补充说，这需要伊朗“诚实面对它的违规核项目”。
Rowhani’s triumph — he received more votes than all five rivals combined — inspired celebrations on the streets of Tehran of a kind not seen since 2009, before the Green Movement was crushed in the uprising that followed the disputed election. Moreover, the ready acceptance of the latest election results by the supreme leader himself is indication of potential flexibility in a hard-line regime.
鲁哈尼的胜利——他得到的选票数超过其他五名竞争对手的总和——为德黑兰街头带来了庆祝活动。2009年，大选争议引发武装反抗，“绿色运动”(Green Movement)随后被镇压，自那以后，这种景象就没有再出现过。此外，最高领袖本人也准备好接受最新的选举结果，这表明这个强硬的政体也可能有适度的灵活性。
Rowhani is not a strict reformist in the vein of Khatami, or the Green Movement leaders Mir Hussein Moussavi and Mehdi Karroubi, both of whom remain under house arrest. (The president-elect has declared that he will try to secure their release.) But he has announced his ambition to bolster civil rights, bring about greater social and political freedoms at home, and avoid his predecessor’s incendiary rhetoric, unwillingness to compromise and hard-line stance on the international stage.
鲁哈尼并不是像哈塔米、或者“绿色运动”领袖米尔·侯赛因·穆萨维(Mir Hussein Moussavi)和迈赫迪·卡鲁比(Mehdi Karroubi)那样严格的改革派，穆萨维和卡鲁比至今仍被软禁。（这位候任总统已宣布，他将努力确保释放这两人。）但他已经宣布，他有决心维护公民权利，为国内带来更大程度的社会、政治自由，避免前任那些煽动性的言辞、不愿妥协的态度，以及在国际舞台上的强硬立场。
Whether those of us in the West approve or disapprove of Iran’s system of governance, or its foreign policy and nuclear ambitions, at least for the immediate future we will soon be dealing with a president who, unlike his predecessor, is genuinely popular.
不论我们这些身在西方的人是否认可伊朗的治理体制，或是它的外交政策以及在核项目上的野心，至少很快我们将要与一位不同于前任的、非常受欢迎的总统打交道。
For many Iranians the contrast between Rowhani and outgoing President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad could not be more clear. Although those distinctions may appear blurred to foreigners, they are nevertheless significant and could present tremendous advantages, particularly to the United States. While a breakthrough on the nuclear stalemate is unlikely to come soon, there are areas where his proclaimed willingness to engage with the international community could produce results.
对于很多伊朗人来说，鲁哈尼与行将卸任的马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪-内贾德(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)总统之间的对比再明显不过。虽然在外国人看来，这些区别或许不很清晰，但它们非常重要，能够带来很多好处，特别是对美国来说。虽然不可能很快在核问题的僵局上取得突破，但鲁哈尼表明他愿意在一些领域与国际社会进行沟通，在这些领域我们可能会看到一些成果。
Rowhani’s views on America mirror those of many ordinary Iranian citizens: He wants to reduce the mutual hostility, and has indicated that he would even favor a normalization of relations, as long as Iran’s national interests are not compromised. In his first post-election press conference, he did not shy from his campaign promise to improve relations with the outside world. “We don’t want further tension,” Rowhani declared, adding that Iranians would “be happy to build trust and repair relations with the United States.”
鲁哈尼对美国的看法反映出很多普通民众的态度：他希望缓解双方的敌对关系，并表示他甚至会赞成关系的正常化，只要伊朗的国家利益不会受损。在当选后首次举行的新闻发布会上，鲁哈尼没有回避自己的竞选承诺——改善与外界的关系。鲁哈尼宣称，”我们不希望紧张关系进一步升级，”并补充表示，伊朗人“乐意与美国建立信任，修复关系”。
On the nuclear issue he appears less absolutist than his predecessor, though he has said that his position is certainly not one of “surrender” to demands that Iran halt its nuclear program. But he has called for greater cooperation with the international community in search of a concerted diplomatic solution that will calm Western fears that Tehran is on the way to developing nuclear weapons.
在核问题上，鲁哈尼似乎没有他的前任那么绝对，然而他已表示他肯定不会“屈服”于希望伊朗停止核项目的要求。但他呼吁与国际社会加强合作，寻求协同一致的外交解决方案，西方国家担心伊朗正在发展核武器，他希望这样一个方案会消除这种担忧。
A common refrain among many foreign analysts and governments is that it doesn’t matter what an Iranian president thinks or wants because his actions are restrained by the supreme leader and the vast power of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards.
很多外国分析人士及政府普遍认为，伊朗总统的想法和愿望并不重要，因为他的行动会受到最高领袖及伊朗革命卫队(Revolutionary Guards)强大势力的限制。
Although the Iranian president has no direct control over security issues, including the program for nuclear development, he does set the tone on foreign policy. As chairman of the Supreme National Security Council, which advises the supreme leader, Rowhani will have a say in choosing the council secretary (and therefore Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator), and he has the ear of Ayatollah Khamenei, who has shown in the past an ability (if not always the desire) to bend in the direction of his president.
虽然伊朗总统无法直接掌控包括核发展项目在内的安全问题，他确实能够设定外交政策的基调。作为给最高领袖提供建议的最高国家安全委员会(Supreme National Security Council)的主席，鲁哈尼在挑选委员会秘书（实际上也就是在挑选伊朗的首席核谈判代表）方面拥有发言权，阿亚图拉·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Khamenei)会听取他的意见，从哈梅内伊过去的表现看，他是可以（甚至可以说一直乐意）与总统保持路线一致的。
When it comes to Iran’s nuclear ambitions, its role in the Syrian crisis, the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and foreign policy in general, it is unreasonable to expect a sudden U-turn. Iranian foreign policy has in the past been formed by consensus among the various power centers represented on the Security Council, currently dominated by hard-liners. Yet Rowhani’s influence will be felt, and it will doubtlessly bring a more nuanced policy to the fore.
至于伊朗的核野心、它在叙利亚危机中的角色、巴以冲突及总的外交政策，希望这些方面能出现大的转变是不切实际的。伊朗的外交政策过去一直是由代表各权力中心的安全委员会成员协调而达成共识，安全委员会现在是由强硬派主导。但鲁哈尼将会展现自己的影响力，带来一个有所不同的政策。
Elated though they may be over his victory, Iranians — as sophisticated as their counterparts in the West — are not delusional about what can or will be accomplished. But they can hope that the West will be receptive to the potential that his election might bring.
虽然鲁哈尼的胜利可能使伊朗人欣喜若狂，但他们和西方人一样老于世故，对此次胜利能够和将会带来什么结果并不存在妄想。但西方国家将会乐于接受鲁哈尼获胜可能带来的结果，这一点伊朗人是可以指望的。