Hassan Rouhani was sworn in as Iran’s president during a ceremony in Parliament on Sunday, after which he presented a new cabinet dominated by technocrats who had previously served under a moderate former president, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani.
周日，哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)在议会的仪式上宣誓就任伊朗总统，随后宣布了新一届内阁成员的名单，其中多数都是曾在温和派前总统阿里·阿克巴尔·哈什米·拉夫桑贾尼(Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani)治下任职的技术官僚。
The cabinet must still be confirmed by Parliament.
不过，新内阁还有待于议会的审核通过。
“My government will be one of foresight and hope,” Mr. Rouhani said in a speech after his swearing-in ceremony, adding that his election showed that the Iranian people want “to live free,” and “are longing for change and progress, they want relief from poverty and discrimination.”
“我领导的将会是一个有远见和希望的政府，”鲁哈尼在就职仪式后的讲话中说。他补充说，他的当选表明，伊朗人民希望“自由地生活”，而且“渴望改革和进步，希望走出贫穷和歧视”。
He faces a mountain of problems, including rampant inflation, diminishing revenues and foreign reserves, possible food shortages and new United States sanctions over the country’s nuclear program.
他面临着堆积如山的问题，包括居高不下的通货膨胀、不断减少的收入和外汇储备、可能出现的食品短缺以及美国对其核计划实施的新制裁。
By choosing to stock his cabinet with old hands from the Rafsanjani years, Mr. Rouhani appeared to be looking to a more moderate past to solve current problems and plan for the future, analysts said. And he showed that the former president would wield considerable influence in the new government.
分析人士称，鲁哈尼把曾为拉夫桑贾尼效命的一些老手选入内阁，似乎是在向过去那段更温和的历史时期求助，以解决当前的问题，为将来制定计划。此外，他已经表明，那位温和派前总统将对新一届政府拥有相当大的影响力。
“Most key ministers have served under Hashemi-Rafsanjani,” said Nader Karimi Joni, a political analyst who has been critical of Iran’s leaders. “This shows his clear involvement.”
“大部分关键的内阁部长人选都曾为拉夫桑贾尼效命，”一直对伊朗领导人持批判态度的政治分析人士纳德·卡里米·约尼(Nader Karimi Joni)说，“这清晰地表明了他对新政府的影响。”
Mr. Rafsanjani, 78, wanted to run for a new term as president this year, but he was barred by the country’s Guardian Council, which said he was too old.
78岁的拉夫桑贾尼本希望今年再次参选，伊朗宪法监督委员会(Guardian Council)却阻止了他，理由是他年事过高。
During the ceremony on Sunday, he sat smiling next to the incoming president.
在周日的就职仪式上，他面带微笑地坐在即将上任的新总统身旁。
Among the Rafsanjani protégés is the proposed minister of oil, Bijan Namdar Zangeneh, who is widely regarded as the modernizer of Iran’s oil industry, having invited in Western companies to help carry out the work. The incoming minister of housing, Abbas Akhondi, held the same position during Mr. Rafsanjani’s tenure, from 1989 to 1997.
拉夫桑贾尼的门生当中包括被提名为石油部长的比詹·纳姆达尔·赞加内(Bijan Namdar Zangeneh)，他被普遍认为是伊朗石油工业的现代化之父，因为他邀请西方公司进入伊朗，帮助实现伊朗石油工业的现代化。阿巴斯·阿洪迪(Abbas Akhondi)可能出任住房部长，在1989年到1997年拉夫桑贾尼担任总统期间，他一直担任同一职位。
The proposed head of the influential Ministry of Industries and Mines, Mohammad Reza Nematzadeh, is a former member of the Revolutionary Guards who is now strictly opposed to involvement by that organization in the economy.
穆罕默德·礼萨·内马特扎德(Mohammad Reza Nematzadeh)被提名为颇具影响力的工业及矿业部(Ministry of Industries and Mines)部长，他曾是伊朗革命卫队(Revolutionary Guards)成员，目前则坚决反对革命卫队参与经济事务。
Mr. Rouhani’s choice for foreign minister, Javad Zarif, raised the most eyebrows. Mr. Zarif, 53, has lived half his life in the United States, is a fluent English speaker and served from 2002 to 2007 as Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations. He was also part of Mr. Rouhani’s nuclear negotiating team, which in 2003 struck a deal with European nations to temporarily suspend uranium enrichment.
最令人震惊的是，鲁哈尼提名贾瓦德·扎里夫(Javad Zarif)来担任外交部长。53岁的扎里夫在美国待了半辈子，说得一口流利的英语，曾在2002年至2007年间担任伊朗驻美国大使。他还是鲁哈尼核谈判小组的成员，该小组于2003年与欧洲国家达成协议，同意暂停铀浓缩项目。
“These appointments mean Mr. Rouhani’s cabinet is technocrat-dominated and geared towards changing domestic and international affairs, like what we saw during Mr. Rafsanjani’s time,” Mr. Joni said.
约尼表示，“这些提名说明鲁哈尼的内阁将由技术官僚控制，准备应对不断变化的国内国际事务，就像我们在拉夫桑贾尼执政时期看到的那样。”
Hinting that he was open to talks with the West, Mr. Rouhani emphasized that sanctions and even war would not change the minds of Iran’s leaders regarding the nuclear program.
鲁哈尼强调指出，制裁举措乃至战争都不会改变伊朗领导人对核项目的态度，同时暗示他愿意与西方国家进行对话。
“To have interactions with Iran, there should be talks based on an equal position, building mutual trust and respect, and reducing enmity,” Mr. Rouhani said. Speaking to the West, he added, “I hereby say this explicitly, that if you expect a suitable response, you should talk to Iran with respect, not the language of sanctions.” His words prompted loud applause from members of Parliament and other officials.
鲁哈尼表示，“要想与伊朗进行互动，就应该开展平等对话，建立互信和相互尊重，减少敌意。”提到西方国家时，他补充称，“我特此明确说明，如果你们期待得到适当的回应，就应该以尊重的态度与伊朗对话，而不是诉诸制裁。”这番言论赢得了议会成员及其他官员的热烈掌声。
Officials close to the new president are saying that they want to see a first-step gesture from the United States, noting that Mr. Rouhani’s landslide victory has given him a broad mandate to negotiate with the West.
一些与新总统关系密切的官员称，他们希望看到美国的初步态度。他们指出，鲁哈尼的压倒性胜利给了他与西方国家谈判的广泛授权。
The White House released a statement on Sunday hailing the arrival of Mr. Rouhani, but it made no mention of concessions.
周日，白宫(White House)发表声明祝贺鲁哈尼就任总统，但没有提及会做出妥协。
“The inauguration of President Rouhani presents an opportunity for Iran to act quickly to resolve the international community’s deep concerns over Iran’s nuclear program,” the statement read. “Should this new government choose to engage substantively and seriously to meet its international obligations and find a peaceful solution to this issue, it will find a willing partner in the United States.”
“鲁哈尼总统就职使得伊朗有机会迅速采取行动，消除国际社会对伊朗核计划的深切担忧，”声明称，“如果新政府选择切实认真地履行国际义务，通过和平方式解决核问题，美国愿意成为伊朗的合作伙伴。”