China is flush with cash, but even so, some Chinese are marveling at the price of a letter auctioned in Beijing this week at the China Guardian fall auctions: a 220-character missive by Lu Xun, one of the country’s most venerated writers. The letter, dated June 8, 1934 and on the subject of learning Japanese, was written to Tao Kangde, a magazine publisher who, like Lu Xun, was part of a vibrant intellectual scene in pre-Communist, Republican China that included the scholar Lin Yutang and many others.
中国现在财力雄厚，但本周在北京举行的一场中国嘉德秋季拍卖会上，一封信件拍出的价格还是让一些中国人惊叹不已：这是一封220字的信函，出自中国最受敬仰的作家鲁迅之手。信件标明的日期为1934年6月8日，内容是关于日语学习的讨论，收信人是一位名叫陶亢德的杂志出版人，他和鲁迅一样，都属于在共产党执政前的中华民国时代的知识分子，当时那个充满活力的圈子还包括有林语堂等学者。
Lot 2257 was written on a single piece of paper and sold on Monday for more than 6.5 million renminbi, or over $1 million, about three times its asking price.
第2257号拍品是写在一张纸上的信件，在周一的拍卖会上以超过650万元人民币的价格成交，约为报价的三倍。
“Can you believe that each character by the modern Chinese writer Lu Xun could fetch almost 30,000 renminbi?” or $4,907, the Chengdu Commercial News marveled on Wednesday.
“你能想象中国现代文学的重量级人物鲁迅的一个字能值3万元人民币吗？”《成都商报》周三的一篇报道感叹道。
Lu Xun, of course, was not just any writer. The author of modern classics that examined China’s soul, such as “Diary of a Madman” and “The True Story of Ah Q,” he came from an educated family and was a liberal leftist who had a complicated relationship with the Communist Party. He spoke Japanese and German, and studied medicine in Japan in 1904. He later switched to writing, saying he wanted to help cure China’s soul, which he saw as beset with self-defeating traditions. “It was a reasonable price,” Song Hao, a senior manager in the rare books department of China Guardian, said in a telephone interview. The letter had been acquired — with difficulty, she said — from a private collector in China whom she declined to name. The auction house sold another item written by Lu Xun’s last spring, also fetching over 6 million renminbi, she said, but artifacts related to Lu Xun are rare.
鲁迅自然并非一般的作家。他的那些现代文学经典之作，如《狂人日记》和《阿Q正传》，是对中国之魂的检视，他出身书香门第，是一个左翼自由主义者，和中国共产党保持着很难说清的关系。他会说日语和德语，1904年在日本学医。后来他转向了写作，称自己想医治的是中国的灵魂，因为他认为中国的传统起到的是反作用，对灵魂是一种束缚。“这是个公道价，”中国嘉德古籍善本部高级业务经理宋皓在一次电话采访中说。信函原属一位中国私人藏家所有，宋皓称征集的过程颇为艰难，但拒绝透露藏家的身份。她说嘉德去年春天曾拍出另一件鲁迅手稿，成交价也超过了600万元人民币，不过和鲁迅有关的遗物一直是很少见的。
“There is very little of Lu Xun’s circulating in the market,” said Ms. Song, explaining the price.
“市面上鲁迅的东西非常少，”宋皓在解释拍出高价的原因时说。
And its provenance is solid. “Add on to that the fact that this letter is in his published collections, so it is very reliable,” she said. “And its contents are good. His advice on learning Japanese is of use today for people learning foreign languages.”
而信函的来历也是可靠的。“再加上这封信是收入了他的出版文集的，所以可信度很高，”她说。“内容也很好。他对日语学习的建议对今天的人学习外语是有用的。”
In the letter, Lu Xun is responding to Mr. Tao, who had asked him if he should study Japanese. Lu Xun advises him to learn a European language instead, saying there were more important literary works there than in Japan.
针对陶亢德此前问他是否需要学习日语，鲁迅在信中做出了回答。鲁迅建议他改为学习一门欧洲语言，说欧洲的重要文学作品比日本多。
The full text, in translation, reads:
信件全文如下：
“Mr. Kangde,
“亢德先生：
About long-term study at a Japanese language school, I don’t know. My suggestion is, it’s all right if your Japanese is good enough to read scholarly treatises, since these can be picked up quickly. However, when it comes to reading literature, the loss outweighs the gain. New words and dialect frequently show up in novels, but there is no comprehensive dictionary. You have to ask the Japanese. That’s a lot of trouble. And then there are no great works to make the labor of foreign readers worthwhile.
长期的日语学校，我不知道。我的意见，是以为日文只要能看论文就好了，因为他们绍介得快。至于读文艺，却实在有些得不偿失。他们的新语、方言，常见于小说中，而没有完备的字典，只能问日本人，这可就费事了，然而又没有伟大的创作，补偿我们外国读者的劳力。
The time and effort needed to learn Japanese to the point that you can read a novel — and not just half-understand it –would be no less, I think, than to master a European language. And there are great European works. Why don’t you, sir, use the energy that would be spent learning Japanese to learn a Western language instead?
学日本文要能到能够看小说，且非一知半解，所需的时间和力气，我觉得并不亚于学一种欧洲文字，然而欧洲有大作品。先生何不将豫备学日文的力气，学一种西文呢？
As for the submissions for publication under various pen names, if I resend them, please use them as you see fit, sir. This person doesn’t care about payment.
用种种笔名的投稿，倘由我再寄时，请先生看情形分用就是，稿费他是不计较的。
Let this be the reply,Best wishes for your writing,Xun,I bow to you,June 8
此复，即请著安。迅，顿首，六月八日
Over all, the item that went for the highest price at the auction, which China Guardian said netted total sales of 2.35 billion renminbi, or $384 million, was “Tajik Bride,” an oil painting by Jin Shangyi that sold for more than 85 million renminbi, nearly $14 million, against a presale estimate of 16 million renminbi.
中国嘉德称本次秋拍的总成交价达23.5亿元人民币，而拍出最高价的作品为靳尚谊的油画《塔吉克新娘》，售前估价为1600万元，最终以超过8500万元的价格成交。
The painting, which depicts a young Tajik woman, dates from 1983, a few years after China began to shed its isolation under Mao Zedong, and “shocked” the art community, China Guardian wrote, for its use of “Western classicism techniques to depict a beautiful and elegant bride.”
这幅描绘了一名塔吉克姑娘的油画作于1983年，当时的中国刚摆脱毛泽东时代的与世隔绝没多久，中国嘉德称，作品“运用了西方古典主义的写实手法……凸显出女子的端庄优美，”令整个艺术界“为之一振”。