HOBOKEN, N.J. — Americana presents itself as a genre of comforting familiarity: music with deep roots that’s played by hand on physical instruments, often by musicians in vintage-style wardrobes. It’s a coalition — now banding together as a survival mechanism — of honky-tonk country, bluesy rock, soul, bluegrass, old-fashioned gospel and other styles that are modern enough to plug in but still holding out against digital programming. Yet the best Americana, once it gathers an audience, knocks its comfortable expectations away.
新泽西州，霍博肯——“美国传统”(Americana)这个风格有一种让人舒服的亲切感：它是有着深厚根源风格的音乐，乐手经常穿着古色古香的行头，演奏的都是实际的乐器。这是一种小酒馆乡村乐、布鲁斯摇滚、灵魂乐、蓝草音乐、老式福音歌曲以及其他风格的融合体，它们作为存活下来的技艺结合起来，一方面足够现代，可以使用电声乐器演奏，另一方面仍然与数码编程音乐保持距离。然而最好的美国传统风格音乐一旦引来一群观众，就会赶走他们脑海里舒服熟悉的期待。
That’s how it went when Bob Dylan brought his “Americanarama Festival of Music” — his tour with Wilco, My Morning Jacket and Ryan Bingham — to Pier A Park here on Friday night. There were no new songs, and the Americana hallmarks of grainy voices and twangy guitars were plentiful throughout the six-hour event. But so were musical and verbal disruptions.
周五晚（此处指7月26日——编注）鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)在“A码头公园”带来的“美国传统音乐节”(Americanarama Festival of Music)就是如此——这是他与“维尔科”(Wilco)、“我的晨装”(My Morning Jacket)与瑞恩·宾汉(Ryan Bingham)合作的巡演。他们没有表演新歌，6个小时的演出里充满美国传统风格招牌的粗糙嗓音与拨弦吉他。但音乐与歌词极度富于破坏力。
Mr. Dylan’s band members wore baggy suits and a variety of hats, playing under white lights, as if they were at a roadhouse. They riffled through roots styles: Chicago blues, Western swing, rockabilly, doo-wop ballad, rumba-blues, Appalachian banjo and Mr. Dylan’s own 1970s folk-rock (in a recognizable “Tangled Up in Blue,” though Mr. Dylan has changed the lyrics from first person to third). In a show of tour camaraderie, Mr. Dylan was joined by Jeff Tweedy and Jim James, the leaders of Wilco and My Morning Jacket, along with Peter Wolf (formerly of the J. Geils Band), to sing “The Weight,” the Band song that’s an Americana staple.
迪伦的乐队成员穿着肥大的西装，戴着各种各样的帽子，舞台上一片白光，如同公路旅馆一般。他们一气呵成地表演了各种根源风格的音乐：芝加哥布鲁斯、西部摇摆乐、山地乡村摇滚(rockabilly)、嘟-喔普歌谣(doo-wop)、伦巴布鲁斯(rumba-blues)、阿巴拉契亚班卓琴与迪伦在20世纪70年代的民谣摇滚歌曲（人们能听出有一首《纠结在忧郁中》[Tangled Up in Blue]，不过迪伦改了歌词，把第一人称改成第三人称）。演出充满巡演的亲密气氛，“维尔科”的主唱杰夫·特维迪(Jeff Tweedy)与“我的晨装”主唱吉姆·詹姆斯(Jim James)还有“J·盖尔斯乐队”(J. Geils Band)的前主唱彼得·伍尔夫(Peter Wolf)与迪伦合作，演唱了美国传统风格名曲，“乐队”(Band)的《重量》(The Weight)。
But Mr. Dylan is still fighting nostalgia and complacency in his chosen ways: revamping old songs and delivering newer ones filled with bitterness, loss and rage. His set started with an upbeat, thoroughly biting version of “Things Have Changed,” his litany of wounded cynicism.
但迪伦仍在以自己的方式同怀旧与自满作斗争，他为老歌赋予新的形式，让新一些的歌曲中充满痛苦、失落与愤怒。演出以《事情变了》(Things Have Changed)开始，这是一个欢快而充满嘲讽的版本，是他负伤的犬儒主义的祷文。
He hasn’t varied his set list much on this tour, which suggests it’s a purposeful statement. It features songs from his most recent album, “Tempest,” and it touched on love, cataclysms and songs that mingled the two, like “High Water (For Charley Patton),” “Beyond Here Lies Nothin’ “ and “Soon After Midnight.” Mortality constantly shadowed thoughts of romance, while lust persisted as a sign of life.
他并没就巡演的演出曲目做出太大改动，也就是说，这是一个意味深长的宣言。他的最新专辑《暴风雨》(Tempest)涉及爱与灾难这两个主题，曲目中选了来自这张专辑的歌曲，以及其他融合了这两个主题的歌曲，诸如《最高水位（献给查雷·帕顿）》(High Water [For Charley Patton])、《远方一无所有》(Beyond Here Lies Nothin’)和《午夜后不久》(Soon After Midnight)。必死的命运时常笼罩在浪漫的想法之上，而欲望则一直都是生命的信号。
Mr. Dylan’s septuagenarian voice isn’t pretty, but he was working with it, recasting melodies to leap upward where his lyrics were clearer and swerving between the baleful and the comic. Some of his revamps were telling — “She Belongs to Me” retained its wary affection as a country march — and some were arbitrary; a waltz version of “A Hard Rain’s a-Gonna Fall” reduced prophecy to nursery rhyme. Yet that song made clear that even the young Mr. Dylan had his eye on the bleakest possibilities. Decades later, he’s no less adamant.
年过70的迪伦嗓音并不美妙，但他运用这嗓音重塑旋律，将它们提升到更高之处，使歌词更加清晰，在恶毒与喜剧之间迂回。一些歌曲的改编意味深长，比如《她属于我》(She Belongs to Me)被改编为一首乡村乐进行曲，但保持了其中小心翼翼的情感；有些歌曲的改编则非常随意。华尔兹版本的《暴雨将至》(A Hard Rain’s a-Gonna Fall)把预言改编为儿歌，然而这首歌清晰地表明，年轻时代的迪伦一直关注着最严峻的可能性；几十年后，他依然坚定不移。
Wilco shook up its Americana sonically. Songs that could have strummed their way steadily along as wistful country-rock or mid-1960s-style pop-rock could, and did, suddenly go calculatedly berserk: with a blare of feedback, an emphatic full-band repetition of one word (like a stuck LP or a loop), a shower of percussion and piano dissonances, or a detour into the motoric beat and drone of krautrock. Those were sounds and strategies from outside Americana’s usual domain, and they drew shouts of joy.
“维尔科”带来的美国传统风格歌曲令人震撼。他们唱的本应是轻松弹拨，随意吟唱，充满怅惘的乡村摇滚歌曲或20世纪60年代中期的流行摇滚歌曲，一开始也的确如此，突然就变为精心策划的狂暴：有着响亮刺耳的回授，整个乐队强调同一个词（就像一张从中折断的黑胶唱片或一个loop循环），还有猛烈的打击乐和不和谐的钢琴，或迂回地进入摩托车般的节奏以及德式krautrock的低音。这些都是美国传统风格之外的声音和方式，激起了听众欢乐的回响。
Yet Wilco also affirmed its rootsy side, with exquisitely down-home guest solos by Warren Haynes (from Gov’t Mule, the Allman Brothers and the Dead). For its finale, it brought on the rest of the opening acts to join Ian Hunter, of Mott the Hoople, in “All the Young Dudes,” the very 1970s, very English glam-rock anthem written by David Bowie: not Americana but Britainiana.
有了非常富于乡村风格的沃伦·海尼斯（Warren Haynes，曾参与“政府的骡子”[Gov’t Mule]、“奥尔曼兄弟”[Allman Brothers]和“死亡”[the Dead]乐队）带来的客串独奏，“维尔科”也展现出自己根源的一面。乐队的结束曲中，暖场艺人们与“创始人莫特”(Mott the Hoople)的伊恩·亨特(Ian Hunter)一起唱起了《所有年轻人》(All the Young Dudes)这是70年代由大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)创作的华丽摇滚颂歌——不是美国传统风格，倒成了英国传统风格。
My Morning Jacket is a guitar band from Kentucky — a quintessential Americana pedigree — but also a band devoted to the ecstatic possibilities of texture. Its songs exulted in the long, billowing crescendos, sometimes laced with electronics, that have made My Morning Jacket a quintessential band for outdoor festivals. With a guest, the band flaunted its R&B side; it was joined by Brian Jackson, the longtime collaborator of the singer and poet Gil Scott-Heron. Mr. Jackson played a trilling, racing, hyperactive flute solo, as Mr. James sang Mr. Scott-Heron’s 1974 hit “The Bottle”; Mr. James didn’t mention that Mr. Jackson helped write it.
“我的晨装”是来自肯塔基的吉他乐队——纯种美国传统风格出身——但他们也注重音乐质感中充满热情的可能性。他们的歌曲活泼雀跃，进入漫长翻涌的高潮，有时候也点缀一点电子乐，令“我的晨装”成为典型的户外音乐节乐队。他们请来了嘉宾布莱恩·杰克逊(Brian Jackson)，他是歌手与诗人吉尔·斯科特-赫伦(Gil Scott Heron)的长期合作者，为乐队带来张扬的R&B色彩。杰克逊表演了一段惊悚、刺激、活泼的长笛独奏，詹姆斯唱了斯科特-赫伦1974年的金曲《瓶子》(The Bottle)，但没有提起杰克逊也是这支歌的创作者之一。
Mr. Bingham opened the festival with guitar-driven, raspy-voiced, alt-country along the lines of John Mellencamp and Drive-By Truckers. He shared a songwriting Academy Award for “The Weary Kind” in the film “Crazy Heart.” But songs from his own albums weren’t such traditionalist country. They were grimmer, less narrative and more muscular, with titles like “Beg for Broken Legs” and “Depression” and lyrics full of trains, highways and drug troubles, although the key member of Mr. Bingham’s band, Richard Bowden on fiddle, pushed the songs toward hoedowns. It was Americana that stayed neatly within its genre but still raised a ruckus.
宾汉的演出为音乐节拉开帷幕，他演唱了由吉他主导、歌声嘶哑的另类乡村乐，以及约翰·麦伦坎普(John Mellencamp)和“副驾司机”(Drive-By Truckers)的歌。他与人合写的《软弱的人》(The Weary Kind)曾被用在电影《疯狂的心》(Crazy Heart)中，并荣获奥斯卡金像奖。但他自己专辑中的歌曲并不是传统的乡村乐，而是较为阴冷的歌曲，叙事色彩较少，非常强悍，标题类似《祈求断腿》(Beg for Broken Legs)和《抑郁》(Depression)，歌词里充满火车、公路和吸毒问题，虽然宾汉乐队的核心成员、小提琴手理查德·鲍登(Richard Bowden)尽量把歌曲推向活泼欢快。他的音乐仍然属于美国传统风格，依旧让台下观众喧哗一片。