Saturday night is the 50th anniversary of Dylanageddon: the night Bob Dylan savaged the Newport Folk Festival by making loud, electrified noise at a sanctuary that had never been thus sullied. The story of his 1965 assault on Newport is very well known. Its effects have been contemplated ad nauseam. Its details show up in every Dylan biography. It’s so essential to the Dylan story that it may even have engendered folk songs of its own. So the idea of a book to commemorate this geezer milestone seems unnecessary, to put it kindly.
周六晚上是迪伦那场宿命对决的50周年纪念日：50年前的那个晚上，鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)用响亮的电子噪音侵袭了新港民谣节，那里本是从未遭到玷污的圣所。1965年迪伦在新港的战斗已经众所周知。它的影响被一再阐释，已经有些令人作呕。每一本迪伦的传记里都会对之不厌其烦地详细描述。这件事对于迪伦的故事来说是如此重要，简直可以为它写几首民谣歌曲了。所以为这座古怪的纪念碑再来写一本书，老实说似乎完全没有必要。
But what a surprise “Dylan Goes Electric!” turns out to be. This splendid, colorful work of musicology and cultural history is written by Elijah Wald, whose broad range of other books (“Narcocorrido,” “How the Beatles Destroyed Rock ’n’ Roll” and “Global Minstrels”) allows him to approach Newport with a broad base of knowledge. He is perhaps best known for “The Mayor of Macdougal Street,” a collaboration with Dave Van Ronk that became Mr. Van Ronk’s posthumously published memoir. That book reads like a labor of love. This one does, too.
但《迪伦插电了！》(Dylan Goes Electric!)却令人惊喜。这本精彩有趣的音乐学与文化史著作由以利亚·沃尔德(Elijah Wald)带来，他著述颇丰，涉猎广泛，作品包括《迷幻走廊》(Narcocorrido)、《“披头士”是怎样毁了摇滚乐》(How the Beatles Destroyed Rock ’n’ Roll)和《全球吟游歌手》(Global Ministrels)，因此写新港民谣节时也用上了丰富的知识储备。他最有名的作品可能是与戴夫·范·容克(Dave Van ROnk)合著的《麦克道格街市长》(The Mayor of Macdougal Street)一书，这本范·容克的回忆录在他去世后出版。那本书读来充满爱意，这本书也是如此。
Mr. Wald is a superb analyst of the events he describes. And his analyses fly in the face of conventional wisdom. Even his introduction includes enough startling context to indicate “Dylan Goes Electric!” will be seeing the old story with new eyes. What if Mr. Dylan, with his new non-folk songs “Maggie’s Farm,” “Like a Rolling Stone” and “It’s All Over Now, Baby Blue,” was not presenting something mind-blowingly visionary, as he is in most versions of the Newport myth, but signaling a retreat into solipsism and selfishness instead?
沃尔德非常擅长解析自己笔下的事件。而且他的解析完全不顾传统的理解。就连前言中也有不少惊人的内容，表明《迪伦插电了！》绝对是从新的角度去阐述这个老故事。大多数关于新港的神话都说，迪伦当时演唱的那些非民谣的新歌，比如《麦琪的农场》(Maggie’s Farm)、《像一块滚石》(Like a Rolling Stone)和《一切都结束了，蓝宝贝》(It’s All Over Now, Baby Blue)带来了令人耳目一新的远景，但如果事实并非如此，如果迪伦的行为只是向唯我主义和自我中心的倒退，那又会怎么样呢？
“In most tellings, Dylan represents youth and the future, and the people who booed were stuck in the dying past,” Mr. Wald writes. “But there is another version, in which the audience represents youth and hope, and Dylan was shutting himself off behind a wall of electric noise, locking himself in a citadel of wealth and power.” The Bob Dylan who became the spirit of the 1960s — that is, the hipper second half of the decade — was part phantom, after all. He had his motorcycle accident, holed up in Woodstock and in 1968 asked an old friend “How do you know I’m not — for the war?”
“在大多数说法中，迪伦象征着年轻与未来，那些对他起哄的人象征着正在消亡的过去，”沃尔德写道。“但在另一个版本里，观众们才象征着年轻与希望，迪伦只是把自己封闭在电子噪音构成的墙壁之后，把自己闭锁在财富与权力的城堡之中。”那个成为60年代精神象征的鲍勃·迪伦——当然，是嬉皮那一半的60年代——其实有部分是一种错觉。一场摩托车祸之后，他就隐居在伍德斯托克，1968年还曾经问一个老朋友，“你怎么知道我不——不支持战争？”
Mr. Wald knows that it is impossible to think about the Dylan of the Newport Folk Festival — the one who arrived as a new deity in 1963, the one who supposedly divided the place into a battlefield of angry factionalism two years later — without thinking equally hard about Pete Seeger: the folk music movement that Seeger built, the ideals it nurtured, the ways it spun away from those ideals as folk turned commercial, the story of “what Newport meant to him, and the lights that dimmed when the amplifiers sucked up the power.”
迪伦在1963年像一尊新的神祇一样降临新港，两年后又把这里变成了党派之争的愤怒战场，沃尔德知道，要写好新港音乐节的迪伦，也需要以同样的努力去思考皮特·西格(Pete Seeger)，思考他一手缔造的民谣运动、民谣运动所滋养的理想、民谣转向商业的过程中又是如何偏离了这些理想，乃至“新港对于他来说意味着什么，当扩音器攫取权力的时候，光线是如何一点点熄灭下去”。
And although Mr. Wald tries his best to resist oversimplifications, he’s just too good at creating and parsing them. Yes, Seeger can be seen as having tried to use folk music to accomplish an ideal of democracy, of people working together in a spirit of optimism; and, yes, Mr. Dylan can be seen as the loner, the cynic following a path all his own. There are big flaws in these stereotypes, which Mr. Wald acknowledges, but not in the larger truth that Newport drew an idealistic young audience that could be either crushed or encouraged, depending on what kinds of messages an ever more commercialized folk music craze delivered.
沃尔德尽了最大努力去避免过度简单化的倾向，但他也同样擅长创造简化，并对之进行分析。是的，西格可以被描述为试图利用民谣音乐来完成民主的理念，让人们在乐观主义精神之下一起工作；是的，迪伦可以被视为一个孤独者，一个只走自己道路的愤世嫉俗者。但沃尔德指出，这些刻板印象中存在巨大的缺陷，更大的真相是，新港吸引了一群理想主义的年轻听众，商业化民谣传递的狂热信息可以激励他们，也可以把他们碾碎。
Mr. Wald does a fascinating job of describing the ways Seeger’s hard lessons about the collision of ideals and commerce came into play here. By the time of Newport, he had seen both extremes of commercial success: chart-topping as one of the Weavers, then being blacklisted. For all of his self-sacrifice, he was a man with both a family to support and a message to communicate, and he was at a pinnacle of respect and success in 1963, when he was welcomed into the Newport fold.
沃尔德精彩地描述了西格从眼前理想与商业的冲突中艰苦学到的教训。新港民谣节举行的时候，他已经目睹过商业成功的两极结果：他的“纺织工”(Weavers)乐队的一首歌曾经登上排行榜榜首，之后就被列入黑名单。他颇具自我牺牲精神，但他既是一个要养家活口的男人，也有自己的信息要传递，1963年他达到了名望与成功的顶峰，在新港极受欢迎。
(The famous photograph showing Newport royalty — Seeger; Joan Baez; Odetta; Peter, Paul and Mary; the Freedom Singers; and the newbie Bob Dylan — linking arms to sing Seeger’s version of “We Shall Overcome” includes Theodore Bikel, who died on Tuesday. This major moment received scant mention in Mr. Bikel’s obituaries.)
（这张著名的照片展示了新港的核心成员们——西格、琼·贝兹[Joan Baez]、奥德塔[Odetta]、“彼得、保罗与玛丽”[Peter Paul and Mary]、自由歌手[the Freedom Singers]以及新手鲍勃·迪伦——他们肩并肩地歌唱西格版本的《我们会胜利》[We Shall Overcome]，西奥多·比克尔[Theodore Bikel]也在其列，他于周二逝世，这个重要时刻在他的讣告里几乎没怎么提起。）
Two years later, the ground had begun to erode beneath Seeger. For all his hard work in assembling a folk song movement, not everyone agreed with his notion of what contemporary folk music was. And his singing style had become a kind of musical wallpaper, eclipsed even by such arrivistes as the Kingston Trio. “Dylan Goes Electric!” is dense with detail about many rivalries, including one that actually looked like a bear fight between the great but pedantic song collector Alan Lomax and the manager Albert Grossman.
两年后，这片净土开始在西格脚下遭到侵蚀。尽管他努力工作组织民谣运动，但并非所有人都认同他对当代民谣音乐的看法。他的唱法也开始渐渐沦为一种音乐背景，甚至被“金斯顿三人组”(Kingston Trio)这样的暴发户盖过风头。《迪伦插电了！》里有大量细节，写出许多竞争与对抗，包括伟大而迂腐的歌曲收集者艾伦·洛马克斯(Alan Lomax)与经纪人阿尔伯特·格罗斯曼(Albert Grossman)之间的大战。
The factionalism at Newport allowed this kind of antagonism to have huge consequences. Grossman managed the most popular so-called folk musicians of the era, from Gordon Lightfoot, Ian and Sylvia, and Peter, Paul and Mary to the sainted Dylan himself. Lomax embodied the old guard’s contempt for them. And the vengeful Grossman had the power, by sparking Dylan’s interest in Mike Bloomfield and Paul Butterfield’s rhythm section, to make the music planned for Sunday night’s performance even louder than it was already going to be.
新港的党派之争令这种对抗产生了严重后果。格罗斯曼旗下都是当时最流行的所谓民谣乐手，从戈登·莱特福特(Gordon Lightfoot)、“伊恩与西尔维娅”(Ian and Sylvia)、“彼得、保罗与玛丽”到已经封圣的迪伦本人。洛马克斯仍然是老派观点的 守门人，对他们表示轻蔑。复仇的格罗斯曼挑逗迪伦对迈克·布鲁姆菲尔德(Mike Bloomfield)与保罗·巴塔菲尔德(Paul Butterfield)的电声节奏组产生兴趣，让周日晚上的的音乐变得更加响亮吵闹，藉此来获得权力。
The ensuing racket is famously said to have made Seeger want to grab an ax, and in time even Seeger himself repeated this apparently bogus story. Mr. Wald has not only examined all sides of an epochal showdown but also conducted a 2014 interview with a witness who heard Seeger speak to his father, Charles Seeger, about the event when it was over. “I thought he had so much promise,” he said about the apostate Dylan.
接下来场面一团糟，尽管西格本人一再辟谣，但最有名的说法仍然是西格当时抄起了斧子。对于这个重大场面，沃尔德并不只是检视各方的说法，2014年，他采访了一位在场者，此人听到西格事后对父亲查尔斯·西格(Charles Seeger)说，“我觉得他大有希望，”——他说的正是离经叛道的迪伦。
Granted, you need an entry-level interest in this subject matter to care about some of it, but Mr. Wald selects his examples very well. The press of the early ’60s, very slow to figure out what those hairy bohemians were up to, are a fine source of quotable material: When Billboard wrote about Peter, Paul and Mary’s hit “Blowin’ in the Wind,” it described their version as a “slick ditty by Bob Dylan, a sailor’s lament, sung softly and tenderly.”
就算你是刚刚入门，还需要一些最基本的东西才能产生对这个话题的兴趣，沃尔德也为你精心选择了相关素材。60年代初的媒体非常缓慢地才分辨出这些长发的波西米亚人到底想要干什么，它们为本书提供了精彩的各种引言：《公告牌》(Billboard)杂志评论“彼得、保罗与玛丽”唱红的《答案就在风中飘》(Blowin’ in the Wind)时，说他们的版本是“鲍勃·迪伦创作的花哨小调，是水手的哀叹，歌声温和柔软”。
Concert reviewers could be equally dense. When Joan Baez, at Newport in 1965, made “a quick little dedication to President Johnson on his marvelous foreign policy” and sang a verse of “Stop! In the Name of Love,” ending with the line “Think it o-over,” a local newspaper reported that she simply couldn’t resist breaking into a Supremes hit. Then there were the flaps over so-called controversial songs. Protest songs about war and race met little opposition, but Seeger was taken to task for singing something called “Manyura Manyah,” from the British Isles. It told the tale of a manure shoveler whose trade had been wiped out by the automobile.
演唱会的评论者也同样迟钝。1965年，琼·贝兹在新港“非常快地向约翰逊总统了不起的外交政策致敬”，之后唱了一段《以爱的名义停止！》(Stop! In the Name of Love)，最后一句是“好好想想吧”，一家本地报纸报道她只不过是忍不住唱了一首“至高无上”(Supremes)的金曲。人们对那些所谓有争议的歌曲感到不安。抗议战争与种族主义的歌曲没有遭到什么反对，但西格因为唱了英国民歌《拾粪拾粪》(Manyura Manyah)而受到责难。这首歌讲述一个拾粪工人的工作被汽车取代的故事。
This is a book from which to learn that Mr. Dylan’s epochal 1965 set was so badly timed that the act he followed was a woman named Cousin Emmy, who played “Turkey in the Straw” by slapping the melody on her cheeks. But it’s the agility of Mr. Wald’s thinking and his willingness to treat a long-ossified event as living history that give “Dylan Goes Electric!” its bite. He winds up thinking that Mr. Dylan managed, in one 35-minute Newport set, to do irrevocable damage to Seeger’s reputation and destroy much of the folk movement he had worked so long and hard to build. “It was not news that Dylan was the future,” he writes. “The news was that Seeger was the past.”
从这本书里，你可以了解到迪伦1965年那场具有重大意义的演出时间安排有多么糟糕，在他后面登场的是一个名叫“艾米表妹”(Cousin Emmy)的女人，她在脸颊上拍出《稻草中的火鸡》(Turkey in the Straw)的旋律。但沃尔德的思维非常机敏，他把这桩早已僵化的事件变当做活生生的历史对待，令《迪伦插电了》非常精彩。全书结尾，他认为迪伦这场35分钟的新港演出毁坏了西格的声誉，摧毁了西格辛辛苦苦建立起来的民谣运动。“迪伦代表未来，这不是新闻，”他写道，“真正的新闻是，西格已经成为过去。”