SEATTLE — Steven A. Ballmer’s era at Microsoft has come to a full stop.
西雅图——史蒂文·A·鲍尔默(Steven A.Ballmer)在微软(Microsoft)的时代落下了帷幕。
Mr. Ballmer, the company’s former chief executive, resigned on Tuesday as a member of Microsoft’s board, his primary remaining affiliation with the company after leaving the top job in February.
周二，鲍尔默辞去了公司董事一职。今年2月卸任微软首席执行官后，鲍尔默与公司仍然存在的最主要关联，就是在董事会的职务。
Mr. Ballmer said in a resignation letter on Microsoft’s website that a combination of new responsibilities, including his ownership of the Los Angeles Clippers basketball team, made him too busy to serve on the board. He also said he was pleased with the direction that Microsoft was taking under its new chief executive, Satya Nadella, to whom the letter was addressed.
在微软网站上发布的一封辞职信中，鲍尔默写道，自己忙于一系列新的职责，包括执掌洛杉矶快船队(Los Angeles Clippers)，已无暇在董事会服务。他还表示，对于微软在新任首席执行官萨蒂亚·纳德拉(Satya Nadella)领导下的发展方向感到高兴。这封信就是写给纳德拉的。
“Given my confidence and the multitude of new commitments I am taking on now, I think it would be impractical for me to continue to serve on the board, and it is best for me to move off,” Mr. Ballmer wrote in his letter. “The fall will be hectic between teaching a new class and the start of the N.B.A. season, so my departure from the board is effective immediately.”
“鉴于我对公司的信心，以及我正在承担的大量新职责，我认为自己继续在董事会任职是不现实的，最好退出，”鲍尔默在信中写道。“由于我将教授新的课程，NBA也将开始新的赛季，这个秋天会非常繁忙，因此我的辞职立即生效。”
Mr. Ballmer’s departure from the board was expected by many people inside and outside the company after he was pressured by the board last year to speed up his retirement from Microsoft. His $2 billion purchase of the Clippers, a record deal for an N.B.A. team that was completed last week, gave Mr. Ballmer a new focus for his attention.
鲍尔默的离开是公司内外许多人意料之中的事。去年董事会曾向他施压，希望他尽快退休。鲍尔默上周完成了以20亿美元收购快船队的交易。这项协议创下了美国职业篮球协会（National Basketball Association，简称NBA）球队的交易记录，也让鲍尔默有了一个新的关注点。
It was unclear on Tuesday when Mr. Ballmer decided to leave the board. Whatever the timing, Mr. Ballmer, 58, made it clear in a Clippers news conference in Los Angeles on Monday that he planned to be an involved team owner.
截至周二，尚不清楚鲍尔默何时做出了辞职的决定。但无论是什么时候下定决心的，现年58岁的鲍尔默周一在快船队的新闻发布会上的表现已明确展现出，作为老板，他将参与球队的事务。
As he prowled a stage next to Clippers players, Mr. Ballmer gave out his team email address to fans and told them that he liked to be called Steve, rather than Mr. Ballmer.
在快船队球员亮相的讲台上，鲍尔默在他们身旁四处走动，把他在球队的电子邮箱地址发给了球迷，并告诉他们，希望被叫做史蒂夫，而不是鲍尔默先生。
Many people had predicted that Mr. Ballmer would leave the board, partly because Mr. Nadella is faced with the challenge of reinvigorating the company, which could involve unwinding some of Mr. Ballmer’s earlier decisions. Mr. Nadella, who also serves on Microsoft’s board, has already made bolder moves than Mr. Ballmer to create services for devices made by Microsoft’s competitors, like the iPad from Apple.
许多人此前已预料到鲍尔默会离开董事会，部分原因是，纳德拉面临着重振公司的挑战，而这需要推翻鲍尔默早先做出的某些决定。 纳德拉也是微软董事。与鲍尔默相比，他已在采取一些更加大胆的举措，把公司服务提供给了微软公司竞争对手的产品，比如苹果(Apple)的iPad。
In May, Mr. Nadella struck a partnership with Salesforce.com, run by Marc Benioff, with whom Mr. Ballmer had a frosty relationship.
今年5月，纳德拉与马克·贝尼奥夫(Marc Benioff)掌管的网站Salesforce.com达成合作关系，而鲍尔默与贝尼奥夫关系紧张。
Under the leadership of Mr. Ballmer, who became chief executive in 2000, Microsoft had solid growth in profits and revenue. But it fumbled a number of important initiatives in mobile and Internet search, disappointing investors.
鲍尔默于2000年成为微软首席执行官，在他的领导下，公司的利润和营收稳健增长。但公司搞砸了移动及互联网搜索领域的好几项重要计划，让投资商倍感失望。
With Mr. Ballmer gone and the recent addition of new directors, Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Nomura Securities, predicted that the dynamics of the Microsoft board could change meaningfully in the near future.
随着鲍尔默的离去，以及最近几名新董事的加入，野村证券(Nomura Securities)分析师理查德·舍伦德(Richard Sherlund)预测，微软董事会的氛围在不远的将来会发生有意义的变化。
“This was a board that took a lot of direction from Steve Ballmer for quite a few years,” said Mr. Sherlund, who was among those who had predicted Mr. Ballmer would leave.
舍伦德表示，“多年以来，董事会都在很大程度上听从史蒂夫·鲍尔默的领导。”之前很多人预测鲍尔默会离开微软，舍伦德是其中之一。
Mr. Ballmer worked at Microsoft for 34 years, joining the company at the invitation of his former Harvard classmate, Bill Gates, who founded Microsoft with Paul Allen. The company’s success as the dominant software company of the personal computer era turned Mr. Ballmer into a billionaire.
鲍尔默当初接受哈佛老同学比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)的邀请，加入他与保罗·艾伦(Paul Allen)共同创建的微软工作，一待就是34年。微软是个人电脑时代的软件业霸主，它的成功把鲍尔默变成了亿万富翁。
Mr. Ballmer remains Microsoft’s largest individual shareholder outside of big investment funds. His shares amount to 3.99 percent of the company and are worth more than $15 billion.
除大型投资基金外，鲍尔默是微软最大的个人股东。他持有公司3.99%的股份，价值超过150亿美元（约合920亿元人民币）。