WASHINGTON — With his appointment of a seasoned Senate free-trader as his new ambassador to Beijing, President Obama has chosen an emissary who faithfully reflects his priorities with China, which have tended to emphasize jobs and other economic issues.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统将一名经验老到的自由贸易主义参议员任命为自己的新任驻华大使，由此选择了一名能如实贯彻自己对华议题优先选项的使者，这些优先选项倾向于强调就业和其他经济议题。
But Mr. Obama still has a way to go to restock the deep China bench he recruited in his first term, raising the larger question of who in the upper ranks of his administration, aside from the president himself, will have an influential voice in dealing with the Chinese.
不过，要让自己在第一任期内招募的中国通人才库得到恢复，奥巴马还有相当长的路要走，人们由此产生了一个范围更大的疑问，那就是在奥巴马政府的高层，除了总统自己之外，还有谁会在对华事务上掌握有分量的话语权？
On Friday, Mr. Obama formally nominated Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, as his new envoy, sending a congressional power broker with a history of fighting for American beef exports to Beijing.
上周五，奥巴马正式提名蒙大拿州民主党参议员马克斯·鲍卡斯(Max Baucus)为美国新任驻华大使，此举将把一名强有力的国会权力掮客送往北京，后者一直在为美国牛肉出口中国而奋战。
“For more than two decades,” the president said, “Max Baucus has worked to deepen the relationship between the United States and China.”
总统说，“过去20多年的时间里，马克斯·鲍卡斯一直在为深化美中关系而努力。”
Mr. Baucus, however, does not compensate for Timothy F. Geithner, the former Treasury secretary; Hillary Rodham Clinton, the former secretary of state; and Tom Donilon, the former national security adviser, whose departures left a palpable gap in terms of high-level engagement with Beijing, according to former officials, diplomats and experts on the relationship.
然而，一些前任政府官员、外交官和美中关系专家表示，鲍卡斯无法填补前财长蒂莫西·F·盖特纳(Timothy F. Geithner)留下的空白；无法填补前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)留下的空白；也无法弥补前国家安全顾问汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)留下的空白，这些人的离任使得美中高层的互动出现了一个明显的缺口。
“The U.S. is missing a natural go-to person,” said Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who served as Mr. Obama’s ambassador to China from 2009 to 2011, before leaving to run for the Republican presidential nomination. “On our side, there’s a strategy gap, and it’s complicated by a leadership void.”
洪博培(Jon M. Huntsman Jr.)是2009年到2011年间的奥巴马政府驻华大使，后离职竞争共和党总统候选人提名。他说，“美国需要一个天生的排忧能人。我们这边存在一片战略空白，领导层的空缺则让这种局面更加严重。”
That void is all the more notable given Mr. Obama’s much-advertised strategic shift to Asia. It has been exacerbated in the past year because the president was forced to cancel a trip to the region to deal with the government shutdown, leaving the field to China’s leaders. Mr. Obama’s unusual “shirt-sleeves summit” meeting with President Xi Jinping in June at a desert estate in Southern California, by most accounts, failed to break the ice.
考虑到奥巴马大张旗鼓地转向亚洲战略，这种空缺变得愈加明显。这种情况在去年有所加剧，原因是为了处理政府停摆僵局，总统被迫取消了前往该地区的行程，把这片战场留给了中方领导人。从很大程度上说，奥巴马和习近平于今年6月在南加州沙漠庄园里举行的那场异乎寻常的“便装峰会”并未打破坚冰。
Administration officials dispute that a new cabinet lineup means China is getting less attention. They point to highly engaged officials like Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker; the United States trade representative, Michael B. Froman; and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, who this week rebuked China after its warship nearly collided with an American cruiser in the South China Sea. And they say that Secretary of State John Kerry, in particular, has made progress with China on issues like climate change.
有人认为新的内阁阵容意味着中国得到的关注正在变少，奥巴马政府官员驳斥了这种观点。他们举出了一些高度专注对华事务的官员，如商务部长彭妮·普利茨克(Penny Pritzker)、美国贸易代表迈克·B·弗罗曼(Michael B. Froman)，以及国防部长哈克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)，后者于本周谴责了中国，起因是中国军舰几乎在南海和美方的一艘巡洋舰发生碰撞。前述人士还说，表现尤为突出的是美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)，他会同中方在气候变化等议题上取得了进展。
“The hunt for the China person in the administration is a scavenger hunt that misses the fundamental point, which is that U.S.-China relations is a team sport and the team captain is President Obama,” said Daniel R. Russel, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, who previously was in charge of Asia policy at the National Security Council.
“在政府内部寻找中国事务专家，可说是一次没抓住重点的寻宝搜索，重点在于中美关系是一项团体运动，美方队长是奥巴马。”美国东亚事务助理国务卿丹尼尔·R·拉塞尔(Daniel R.Russel)说，此前他曾在国家安全委员会(National Security Council)负责亚洲政策。
Still, there is no ranking Obama official who approaches the level of energy or focus on China that Henry M. Paulson Jr. brought as Treasury secretary under President George W. Bush. Given the sensitivities of Chinese culture and the complexities of its relationship with the United States, analysts say such high-level interlocutors are vital.
尽管如此，以对中国投入的精力或关注来衡量，还没有哪位奥巴马政府高官能达到乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府财政部长小亨利·M·保尔森(Henry M. Paulson Jr.)的水平。分析人士说，鉴于中国文化的敏感性和美中关系的复杂性，这种高层协调专家可谓至关重要。
“There is a level of deference when the U.S. designates someone of high standing to manage the relationship,” said Orville Schell, the Arthur Ross Director of the Center for U.S.-China Relations at the Asia Society. “This is something that Chinese culture and politics begs for.”
“美国如果指派某个身居高位的人来管理中美关系，可以体现一定程度的敬重，”亚洲协会(Asia Society)美中关系中心(Center for U.S.-China Relations)的阿瑟·罗斯主任夏伟(Orville Schell)说，“这是中国的文化和政治希望得到的东西。”
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has taken on some of that role, traveling to Beijing two weeks ago for five and a half hours of meetings with President Xi. The two got to know each other well during reciprocal visits to Beijing and Washington, and on this trip, the vice president spoke bluntly to Mr. Xi about China’s military muscle-flexing in its coastal waters and other issues.
美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)在一定程度上担当了这一角色。两周前，拜登前往北京，与习近平主席进行了五个半小时的会晤。在北京与华盛顿之间的多次互访中，两人已经彼此熟悉。访华期间，副总统直截了当地向习近平说起了中国军方在沿海水域的武力炫耀，以及其他一些问题。
But for reasons of protocol and the maturing of the relationship, officials said, it is difficult for the vice president to fully embody the role of point person. Some in the administration also argue that the Chinese feel they can exploit a single point of contact by turning that person into an advocate.
但一些官员表示，因为礼仪，也因为中美关系日益成熟，副总统很难完全替代专职人员的角色。奥巴马政府的一些人还表示，中国人觉得自己可以利用单一的联系人，方法则是把这个人变成己方利益的倡导者。
In Mr. Obama’s first term, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Geithner both laid claim to China. Mr. Geithner, the son of an Asia expert at the Ford Foundation who studied Mandarin, steeped himself in China issues during a previous stint at the Treasury Department. What Mrs. Clinton lacked in training, she made up for in mileage, making her first trip as secretary of state to Asia and returning regularly to Beijing.
在奥巴马的第一任期，克林顿夫人和盖特纳都以处理对华问题为己任。身为福特基金会(Ford Foundation)一名亚洲问题专家的儿子，学过普通话的盖特纳在前一次供职财政部(Treasury Department)期间就曾专注于中国问题。克林顿夫人则用访华次数弥补了训练方面的欠缺，担任国务卿后她首次出访的目的地便是亚洲，后来又多次访问北京。
Mr. Kerry’s most visible efforts have been in the Middle East, where he is trying to broker peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians. But he just completed a trip to Vietnam and the Philippines, where he announced aid for maritime security that was aimed at easing fears about China’s muscular role in the South China Sea.
克里最明显的努力是在中东。在那里，他正在努力促成巴以和平。而在亚洲，他仅仅完成了对越南和菲律宾的访问。克里在菲律宾宣布为海上安全提供援助，旨在缓解对中国在南海的强势角色的担忧。
While Mr. Geithner’s successor, Jacob J. Lew, has far less background in China than Mr. Geithner, officials note that he was the first senior American official to travel to Beijing after Mr. Xi ascended to the presidency.
尽管盖特纳继任者雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)的中国经验远逊于盖特纳，但官员们指出，他是在习近平担任国家主席后访华的首位美国高官。
As national security adviser, Mr. Donilon also asserted himself on China, traveling to Beijing several times, once with Lawrence H. Summers, then Mr. Obama’s chief economic adviser. Officials note that his successor, Susan E. Rice, cut her teeth on China by negotiating with its diplomats at the United Nations, where she was ambassador.
作为国家安全顾问，多尼隆也在中国问题上颇有建树。他多次前往北京，其中一次是和时任奥巴马首席经济顾问的劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H.Summers)同行。官员们指出，他的继任者苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)通过与中国驻联合国使节谈判积累了在中国问题上的经验。赖斯曾是美国驻联合国大使。
Mr. Baucus, unlike other candidates for the Beijing post, does not speak Chinese. But he is a familiar figure there, at least to economic officials, having taken part in numerous trade delegations and met with Chinese leaders, including Mr. Xi; former Prime Minister Wen Jiabao; and China’s ambassador to the United States, Cui Tiankai.
不同于驻华大使这一职位的其他候选人，鲍卡斯不会说中文。但在中国，至少是对中国的经济事务官员而言，鲍卡斯算是个熟人。他参加了多次贸易代表团，同包括习近平、前总理温家宝以及中国驻美大使崔天凯在内的中国领导人见过面。
With the United States and China in talks on a bilateral investment treaty, some analysts said Mr. Baucus might have a more significant tenure than his predecessor, Gary Locke, whose most visible accomplishment was streamlining the visa application process for Chinese tourists.
一些分析人士称，鉴于中美两国正在就一项双边投资协议进行谈判，鲍卡斯的任期可能比前任骆家辉(Gary Locke)更重要，后者最明显的成就是简化中国游客申请签证的程序。
“Once they finish negotiations on the treaty, they need to get it approved by the Senate,” said Erin Ennis, vice president of the U.S.-China Business Council. “Baucus is going to be useful in helping the Chinese understand what they need to do to win Senate approval.”
“一旦结束了围绕该协议的谈判，他们就必须让协议得到参议院的批准，”美中贸易全国委员会(U.S.-China Business Council)副主席埃琳·恩尼斯(Erin Ennis)说，“在让中国懂得如何争取参议院批准这一方面，鲍卡斯可以发挥作用。”