Question: Do dried blueberries provide the same antioxidant benefits as fresh berries?
问：蓝莓干的抗氧化作用与新鲜蓝莓一样吗？
Answer: There are some nutritional differences between dried and fresh fruit. But antioxidant activity is generally not one of them.
答：蓝莓干与新鲜蓝莓在营养方面是有些不同，但抗氧化活性并非其中之一。
A study published in The Journal of Biomedicine and Biotechnology looked at the effects that freezing and drying had on antioxidants in fresh blueberries. The berries were either frozen at roughly 4 degrees Fahrenheit for up to three months, or they were dried through one of two drying processes.
发表在《生物医学与生物技术》(The Journal of Biomedicine and Biotechnology)上的一项研究观察了冷冻和干燥对新鲜蓝莓抗氧化能力的影响。研究者将蓝莓或冷冻在零下15摄氏度下三个月，或用两种干燥工艺中的一种进行干燥。
Ultimately, when the researchers measured and compared their antioxidant activity, they found no significant differences between the fresh, dried and frozen berries.
最后，当研究者测量并比较新鲜蓝莓与处理后蓝莓的抗氧化活性时，他们发现二者间比并无显著差异。
The real difference, said Kristin Kirkpatrick of the Cleveland Clinic’s Wellness Institute, is in sugar content.
克里夫兰诊所健康研究院(Cleveland Clinic’s Wellness Institute)的克里斯汀·柯克帕特里克(Kristin Kirkpatrick)说：真正区别大的，是含糖量。
The drying process removes water, which concentrates sugar and raises the caloric content by weight. A cup of fresh or frozen blueberries has about 85 calories and 14 grams of sugar. One half cup of dried blueberries, on the other hand, has roughly 270 calories and 25 grams of sugar.
干燥工艺除去了蓝莓中的水，浓缩了糖，提高了每克蓝莓的热量。一杯新鲜或冷冻蓝莓的热量是85卡路里，含有14克糖。然而，半杯蓝莓干的热量达到了270卡路里，含糖量高达25克。
“That’s a significant increase,” Ms. Kirkpatrick said. “It makes a difference because it affects blood sugar and it affects insulin.”
“含糖量显著提高，”柯克帕特里克女士说，“这就使蓝莓干有别于新鲜蓝莓，因为它影响血糖和胰岛素。”
If you do eat dried fruit, she added, it is best to stick with one serving a day. And when substituting dried fruit for its fresh counterpart, keep in mind the difference in sugar and calories.
她补充说，如果你爱吃水果干，最好每天固定只吃一份。当用水果干代替新鲜水果时，时刻想着二者的含糖量与热量是不同的。
“If you’re going to add some dried blueberries to your oatmeal as opposed to fresh,” she said, “don’t think that you can use a one to one ratio, because you may start to gain weight and wonder, ‘What the heck am I doing wrong?’ ”
“假如你想在燕麦粥里加些蓝莓干，而非新鲜蓝莓，”她说，“不要觉得你可以用1：1的比例往里加。因为你很可能因此长胖，同时还奇怪‘我到底哪儿做错了？’”