HONG KONG — President-elect Donald J. Trump’s golden quiff, bushy eyebrows and preening gestures were immortalized this week in China — though perhaps not in a way that he would like.
香港——候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的金色额发、浓密的眉毛和整理仪容的姿势本周在中国得以永恒——尽管是以一种他可能并不喜欢的方式。
They appeared on a giant rooster statue, just above some three-toed feet and a blood-red wattle that hangs below a gilded nose and mouth.
它们出现在一座巨大的公鸡雕塑上，下面的脚上有三只脚趾，还有一块红色的肉垂挂在金色的鼻子和嘴巴下面。
The statue, which was installed outside a shopping mall in the northern Chinese city of Taiyuan, was built to celebrate the coming Year of the Rooster in the Chinese lunar calendar and comes less than a month before Mr. Trump’s inauguration. It is 23 feet tall.
这座庆祝中国农历鸡年的雕塑矗立在中国北部城市太原一座购物中心的外面，此时距离特朗普的就职仪式不到一个月。它有23英尺高（约7米）。
Global Times, said on Tuesday that onlookers in Taiyuan, the capital of Shanxi Province, had praised the statue as a “perfect blend of Chinese and Western cultures.”
《环球时报》周二表示，山西省会太原的观众称赞这座雕塑是“中西文化的完美结合”。
“It’s not bad looking,” Zhang Guoqiang, an employee at the Yihui Japanese Restaurant at the North America N1 Art Shopping Center, where the statue is, said by telephone on Thursday.
“它不难看，”这座雕塑所在的北美新天地N1艺术购物中心的一家日餐厅壹会的员工张国强（音）周四接受电话采访时说。
Inflatable “Trump chicken” replicas were on sale at Taobao, an online shopping bazaar, with a 32-foot version advertised for $1,725.
网上集市淘宝已经有了“特朗普鸡”的充气版仿制品，32英尺高（约10米）的版本标价1725美元（约合1.2万人民币）。
Casey Latiolais, an illustrator and animator in Seattle, said in a telephone interview that he completed the design in early November for Beijing Reliance Commercial Land, a real estate company that had contacted him through Behance, a website where artists post their portfolios. Mr. Latiolais said the company had asked only for a statue to commemorate the Year of the Rooster and did not mention Mr. Trump.
西雅图的插画师和动画设计师凯西·拉蒂奥莱斯(Casey Latiolais)在接受电话采访时表示，他在11月初为北京新狮瑞德商业管理有限公司完成了这个设计，这家房地产公司是通过Behance网站联系上他的，那是一个艺术家们发表作品的地方。拉蒂奥莱斯称，这家公司只要求他设计一座庆祝鸡年的雕塑，并没有提到过特朗普。
Mr. Latiolais, 30, declined to comment on why he had given the rooster Trump-like features. But he said he had been surprised by the size of the final product, which is made of fiberglass.
30岁的拉蒂奥莱斯拒绝解释他为什么给这只公鸡赋予了类似特朗普的特征。但他表示，他为最后的玻璃纤维成品的尺寸感到吃惊。
“This was way more yuge than I expected,” he wrote on Twitter.
“这比我预想得要大得多，”他在Twitter上写道。
Mr. Latiolais said that he was also surprised when the statue was “sort of bipartisanly looked at as funny” by his friends and family — including his parents, who voted for Mr. Trump.
拉蒂奥莱斯还表示，出乎他意料的是，自己的朋友和家人“不分党派，比较一致地认为它很有趣”——包括他给特朗普投票的父母。
It was not the first time since the American presidential election that people in China had likened Mr. Trump to a bird with notable hair.
自这届美国总统选举开始以来，这不是中国人第一次将特朗普与一只有显眼发型的鸡联系起来。
In November, photos by a Chinese journalist of a golden pheasant with a blond pompadour and a red body circulated widely on social media and were published online by People’s Daily. The bird, which lives in a safari park in the eastern city of Hangzhou, became a star attraction there and a muse for Hsiaohan Chen, a political cartoonist in Taipei.
今年11月，一位中国新闻记者拍摄了一只金色的山鸡，它有金黄色的高卷发型和红色的身体。照片在社交媒体上广为传播，还被《人民日报》发布在网上。这只生活在东部城市杭州一家野生动物园内的山鸡成了那里的明星，还给生活在台北的时事漫画家陈萧寒（Hsiaohan Chen，音）提供了灵感。
President Obama has been compared to at least one avian species: the Western striolated puffbird, which lives in South America and bears the scientific name Nystalus obamai.
奥巴马总统(Obama)被至少比作过一种鸟类：生活在南美洲的西条纹蓬头鴷，学名叫Nystalus obamai。
In a 2013 book chapter that proposed the species name, a team of American and Brazilian scientists said that Mr. Obama had an “outstanding professional record as a fair-minded, resolute and visionary humanitarian.”
在2013年一本专著的一个章节中，一个美国和巴西科学家团队提出了这个物种名，他们表示，“作为一位公正、坚毅而有远见的人道主义者”，奥巴马“有杰出的职业纪录”。
“With the name of this puffbird, we are pleased to recognize Obama’s remarkably positive and pervasive influence on the world stage and, in particular, we support his staunch initiative to bring development of solar energy to the forefront at a time when this obviously ideal global energy solution is, incredibly, still an uphill battle,” the scientists wrote.
“通过如此给这种蓬头鴷命名，我们很高兴认可奥巴马在世界舞台上展现出的积极而且无所不在的影响力，我们尤其支持他重视发展太阳能的坚定倡议，而且是在实现这种显然理想的全球能源解决方案却令人难以置信地需要打一场硬仗的时候，”这些科学家写道。