Q. Our house has five small bedrooms. Would converting one into a large walk-in closet for the master bedroom be good for resale?
问：我们家有五间卧室。如果将其中一间改造成主卧的走入式大壁橱，是不是对我转手这套房产更加有利？
A. From a functional standpoint, repurposing a bedroom as a walk-in closet makes sense — as long as one of your children doesn’t have to give it up to make room for your wardrobe. But the renovation may have little effect on your home’s resale value.
答：从房屋的功能性角度看，把小卧室改造成走入式的大壁橱是值得考虑的。只要你别把你孩子的卧室拿来改装就行。但是，这样的翻修可能对房产的转售价值几乎没有什么影响。
“A good closet is a fabulous thing,” said Pat Garrity, an associate real estate broker at the Corcoran Group in Southampton, N.Y. It can also be a selling feature. Having said that, though, it’s worth noting that a five-bedroom house lists for more than a four-bedroom house.
“有一个好壁橱是件非常美妙的事，”帕特·加里蒂(Pat Garrity)说，她是纽约南安普顿Corcoran Group公司的助理房地产经纪人。这也可能成为房屋的一大卖点。不过话虽如此，仍有必要指出，五室房的价格还是比四室房要高的。
“When you read real estate ads, they will list the number of bedrooms and baths,” Ms. Garrity said. “They do not list how many closets there are.”
“看看房地产广告你就会知道，它们通常会把卧室和浴室的数量列出来，”加里蒂表示，“但广告里可不会提及壁橱的数量。”
If you don’t plan to sell for a few years and are contemplating the renovation for your own use, go ahead and do it, she said. “If you’re doing this renovation primarily to make the house more appealing to the market, don’t do it,” Ms. Garrity said, because you may not recoup your investment.
加里蒂的建议是，如果你近几年不打算把房子卖掉，而是想为了自己使用而翻修一下房子，那就尽管行动吧。她说：“而如果你这样做，主要是想让房子在市场上更具吸引力，那还是算了吧。”因为投资成本可能收不回来。
But if you decide to go forward with the renovation with an eye toward selling at some point, be sure to make the space a luxurious dressing room rather than a run-of-the-mill closet, said Jay Jeffers, an interior designer in San Francisco. “If it’s going to be a selling point, then it needs to be beautifully done,” he said. “I like to make them feel like a real room.”
杰伊·杰弗斯(Jay Jeffers)是旧金山的一位室内设计师。他认为，如果你决定翻修，并且着眼于在未来某个时间段出售房产，那就一定要把原来的小卧室改装成豪华舒适的更衣室，而不是毫无特色的普通壁橱。“如果你想把这次翻修当成一个卖点，那就要把它做得漂亮，”他说，“换做我的话，我就会把它装修得好像一个真正的房间。”
Mr. Jeffers uses elements like floor-to-ceiling cabinetry to soften the space and make it look warm and inviting. And if it’s a his-and-hers closet, he said, “we’ll do a vanity area for her and a dresser area for him, with drawers for his watches and cuff links.”
杰弗斯运用各种设计元素——比如从地板延伸到天花板的壁橱，来消除空间的生硬局促，营造温馨动人的氛围。他表示，如果设计的是男女共用的壁橱，“我们会为女士设计一处化妆区，而为男士设计一处着装区，配备专门的抽屉来存放男士的手表和袖扣。”
If the room is large enough, he also likes to install a central seating feature. “If it’s a long, linear closet, we might do a long bench,” Mr. Jeffers said. “If it’s more of a square room, we might do a nice round ottoman.”
如果房间足够大，杰弗斯还想在中间安个座椅。“如果壁橱比较长，且线条笔直，我们可以考虑搭配一条长凳，”他说，“而如果房间的形状更近似正方形，我们或许可以搭配一张漂亮的圆形软凳。”
Lighting is important as well. An attractive chandelier will immediately make the space feel like more than an ordinary closet, and sconces on either side of a vanity mirror will make people look and feel their best, he said, because “lighting on the side of the face, versus overhead, is always much more flattering.”
照明也是很重要的因素。一盏漂亮的枝形吊灯可以转眼间让原本普通的室内空间显得与众不同。此外，化妆镜两边的壁灯能营造出绝佳的灯光效果，让人在镜中看到、并且感受到自己最好的状态。杰弗斯解释，其原因在于“光线打在侧脸上，而不是头顶上，对气色的烘托效果要好很多。”
If you’re feeling particularly extravagant, Mr. Jeffers suggested a finishing touch. “We had one client, years ago, who requested a mini-fridge,” he said. The homeowner and her friends liked to dress for parties together, he said, “and they always wanted a little cold bottle of Champagne.” 
如果你还想做得更加奢侈，杰弗斯还有一招可以画龙点睛。“几年前，我们有位客户特别提出，要在更衣室里装一个迷你冰箱。”因为这位客户喜欢和她的朋友们一起换装参加聚会，他说，“所以她们希望更衣室里能随时备一小瓶冰镇香槟。” 