BEIRUT, Lebanon — At least 717 people were killed and 863 injured in a stampede near Mecca, Saudi Arabia, on Thursday morning.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——周四上午，沙特阿拉伯麦加附近发生踩踏事件，造成至少717人死亡，863人受伤。
The deaths — at an intersection in Mina, about six miles east of the city — occurred around 9 a.m. on the first day of Eid al-Adha, one of the holiest days in the Muslim calendar, as millions of Muslims were making their pilgrimage, or hajj, to Mecca.
事件发生在麦加以东约六英里的米纳的一处十字路口，时间是上午9点左右。当天是穆斯林一年中最神圣的节日之一开斋节(Eid al-Adha)的第一天。事件发生时，数百万穆斯林正在去麦加朝圣的路上。
It appeared to be the deadliest accident during the hajj since 1990, when 1,426 pilgrims perished in a stampede in a tunnel linking Mecca and Mina. And it occurred less than two weeks after a large construction crane toppled and crashed into the Grand Mosque in Mecca, killing at least 111 people and injuring 394 others.
这应该是自1990年以来，朝圣期间发生的伤亡最惨重的事故。1990年，连接麦加和米纳的一段隧道内发生踩踏，导致1426名朝圣者丧生。不到两周前，一台大型塔吊倒塌，砸向麦加的大清真寺，造成至少111人死亡，394人受伤。
Thursday’s stampede is likely to intensify fears that Saudi Arabia does not have the transportation and public safety infrastructure to channel and protect one of the world’s largest regular human migrations.
周四的踩踏事件可能会加剧人们的担忧，认为沙特阿拉伯不具备运输和保护全世界规模最大的定期人口迁徙所需的交通和公共安全基础设施。
In a statement, the Saudi health minister, Khalid al-Falih, said the stampede may have been “caused by the movement of some pilgrims who didn’t follow the guidelines and instructions issued by the responsible authorities.”
沙特卫生部长哈利德·法力赫(Khalid al-Falih)在一份声明中表示，踩踏可能是因“一些朝圣者不遵循负责机构发布的引导和指示行动造成的”。
But the high death toll is likely to embarrass the Saudi government, which considers itself the leader of the Muslim world and takes great pride in hosting the millions of pilgrims who visit the holy cities of Mecca and Medina each year. One of the titles of the Saudi monarch is “custodian of the two holy mosques,” referring to his personal duty to protect the sites and the pilgrims.
但这么高的死亡人数可能会让沙特政府感到难堪。沙特政府自认为是穆斯林世界的领袖，每年接待数百万前往圣城麦加和麦地那的朝圣者是他们引以为豪的事。沙特国王的其中一个头衔就是“两个圣地的监护人”，意思是他个人担负着保护那两个地方和朝圣者的责任。
The Saudi civil defense directorate reported the deaths on Twitter and said that two medical centers had been opened in Mina to treat the injured. More than 4,000 emergency workers were sent to the scene, and hundreds of people were taken to four hospitals.
沙特的民防指挥部在Twitter上通报了死亡人数，并称已在米纳开设两家医疗中心救助伤员。4000多名急救人员已赶往现场，数百人被送去了四家医院。
The stampede, witnesses reported on social media, occurred around the area where pilgrims go to perform a ritual — the Stoning of the Devil, a re-enactment of a story from the Quran involving the Prophet Abraham — that takes place during the hajj.
目击者在社交媒体上说，这次踩踏发生在一个举行仪式的区域附近，朝圣者要去该区域“石击魔鬼”(Stoning of the Devil )——这个安排在朝圣期间进行的仪式，是对《古兰经》中一段先知亚伯拉罕的故事的重演。
Cellphones and cameras are prohibited from the main sanctuaries, but cameras may be used in the surrounding areas, and videos shared on social media showed scores of lifeless bodies in the street, many covered with the simple white garments pilgrims wear during the hajj. One video showed a heap of men lying atop one another as workers in fluorescent yellow vests worked to separate the living from the dead and to rescue any survivors.
主要仪式区禁止使用手机和相机，但在附近可以用相机。社交媒体上的视频显示，街上横陈着数十具尸体，很多都覆盖着简单的白色服装，那是朝圣者在朝觐期间的衣着。其中一段视频显示，一些男子的躯体堆叠在一起，身着荧光黄背心的工人试图在其中找到幸存者并进行抢救。