HANOI, Vietnam — When Nguyen Hoang Anh and Nguyen Thi My Hao started dating, the 23-year-olds agreed to disagree about food: Mr. Anh adores Western-style fast food, but Ms. Hao mainly eats pho, a popular noodle soup, and other northern Vietnamese foods she has loved since childhood.
越南河内——当23岁的阮璜映（Nguyen Hoang Anh，音译）和与他同岁的阮氏美昊（Nguyen Thi My Hao，音译）开始交往时，两人决定在饮食问题上求同存异：阮璜映喜欢西方快餐，但阮氏美昊最常吃的是越南汤粉，以及她从小就喜欢的其他北越美食。
“He dragged me here,” Ms. Hao, a secretary at a Hanoi university, said recently at a new Burger King restaurant here.
“是他把我拉到这里来的，”在河内一所大学当秘书的阮氏美昊最近在一家新开张的汉堡王(Burger King)餐厅里说。
But though she does not eat fast food almost every day like her boyfriend, Ms. Hao said she was not entirely opposed to it once in a while.
不过，阮氏美昊说，尽管她不像男朋友那样每天都吃快餐，但是偶尔吃一次也不是完全反对。
“Sometimes I want to try something different,” she said, before taking a bite of her Whopper hamburger.
“有时我想尝试点不同的东西，”说完，她咬了一口手中的皇堡。
Attitudes like hers — and appetites like her boyfriend’s — have made Vietnam attractive for American fast-food brands, which view the country as one of Asia’s last consumer markets with significant untapped potential, according to industry analysts.
她对快餐的这种态度——以及她男朋友对快餐的这种喜好——让越南在美国快餐品牌的眼中格外具有吸引力，行业分析人士说，美国的快餐品牌认为，越南是亚洲最后一批拥有开发潜力的消费市场之一。
The latest entrant is McDonald’s, the fast-food giant with restaurants in more than 100 countries, which will open its first Vietnam location on Saturday in downtown Ho Chi Minh City. Vietnam has a surging middle class, and most of its 90 million citizens were born after the Vietnam War ended, in 1975. Many young Vietnamese are insatiably curious about foreign cuisine and culture, like kebabs and K-pop, and the McDonald’s opening has been widely discussed on Vietnamese websites in recent weeks.
麦当劳最近也进驻了越南。这家快餐业巨头在超过100个国家开设了餐厅，本周六将在胡志明市中心开设第一家餐厅。越南中产阶级的规模正日益庞大，该国的9000万人口中，大多数出生于1975年越战结束以后。许多年轻的越南人十分渴望了解国外的饮食和文化，比如烤肉和韩国流行音乐，麦当劳的开张成了越南网站上最近几周被广泛讨论的话题。
KFC opened in Vietnam in 1997, two years after the country normalized relations with the United States. But it was not until 2010 that American brands began to enter Vietnam’s market in earnest. They still trail Asian brands by a large margin. American-style Asian fast-food chains, like Lotteria from South Korea and Jollibee from the Philippines, have slowly introduced restaurants in a few major cities. Two Vietnamese coffee chains — Highlands Coffee and Trung Nguyen — have also made a splash in a market dominated by mom-and-pop cafes.
1997年，在该国与美国邦交正常化两年之后，肯德基进驻了越南。但直到2010年，美国的品牌才开始迫不及待地进入越南市场。它们目前仍然远远落后于亚洲品牌。美式的亚洲快餐连锁，如韩国的乐天利(Lotteria)和菲律宾的快乐蜂(Jollibee)，都在几个大城市逐渐开设了餐厅。两家越南的咖啡连锁店——高地咖啡(Highlands Coffee)和中原咖啡(Trung Nguyen)——都已经在个体小咖啡店占主导地位的市场上产生了影响。
It was inevitable, consultants said, that more American brands would enter the country once the economics looked more appealing. Vietnam’s per capita income rose to $1,550 in 2012 from $1,000 in 2008, according to World Bank estimates, and inflation has stabilized.
行业顾问认为，一旦经济看起来更有吸引力了，就会有更多美国品牌进入越南，这是不可避免的。根据世界银行(World Bank)的统计，越南的人均收入2012年已经增长到1550美元（约合人民币9399元），相比之下，2008年为1000美元，此外，通胀也已经企稳。
“It’s got a big population, the government is making it easier to enter,” said Ralf Matthaes, managing director for Vietnam and the Mekong region at TNS Global, a British market-research consulting firm, “and Vietnamese are now having that basic income level where there is not just sustainability but genuine opportunity for growth and profits.”
英国市场研究咨询公司TNS Global越南和湄公河地区董事总经理拉尔夫·马特斯(Ralf Matthaes)说，“这里人口庞大，政府正在为进入这个国家提供便利。此外，越南现在的基本收入水平不仅已经具备可持续性，而且还有提供了明确的增长和盈利机遇。”
McDonald’s waited a long time to open in Vietnam, given its global brand recognition and likely appeal to young Vietnamese consumers. When it did, it tagged Henry Nguyen, the son-in-law of Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung, as its local franchisee.
考虑到其全球的品牌认可度，以及可能对越南年轻消费者产生的吸引力，麦当劳为进驻越南等待的时间实在有点漫长。当这一刻终于到来的时候，麦当劳选择了越南总理阮晋勇(Nguyen Tan Dung)的女婿阮宝黄(Henry Nguyen)作为当地的特许经营人。
Bill Hayton, a former foreign correspondent in Vietnam and author of “Vietnam: Rising Dragon,” a 2010 book that explored links between money and power in the one-party state, said: “Laws and regulations are often rather vaguely written, giving officials plenty of opportunity to delay or assist an investor’s plans, but Mr. Nguyen has been able to negotiate these difficulties with ease. Having the second-most-powerful man in the country as father-in-law is like having a golden ticket and get-out-jail-free card all rolled into one.”
2010年出版的《越南：崛起中的龙》(Vietnam: Rising Dragon)一书探究了在这个一党国家里，金钱和权力的种种关联。该书作者、前驻越南记者比尔·海顿(Bill Hayton)说，“越南的法律和规则通常表述得很模糊，让官员们有充分的机会来拖延或是协助一名投资者的计划，而阮宝黄就能够轻松地解决这些难题。有一个在越南权力第二大的岳父，就像有了一张通行证和特赦卡。”
A representative for McDonald’s declined requests for a meeting or telephone interview with Mr. Nguyen, a Vietnamese-American business tycoon who moved to the United States as a child and returned with degrees from Harvard and Northwestern University to run the Vietnam office of IDG Ventures, a network of venture capital funds based in San Francisco. 
麦当劳的一名代表回绝了当面或电话采访阮宝黄的请求。阮宝黄是一名越南裔的美籍商业大亨，童年时移居美国，在获得了哈佛大学(Harvard)和西北大学(Northwestern University)的学位之后回到越南，负责管理IDG资本在越南的分公司。IDG资本是一家总部位于旧金山的风投基金网络。
In a statement, Liam Jeory, a McDonald’s vice president for corporate relations, wrote: “The contract with Henry Nguyen as developmental licensee is the result of a rigorous selection process that began years ago. Nguyen brings a strong passion for the brand that he developed while working as a part-time crew member for McDonald’s as a young student in the United States.” 
麦当劳企业关系副总裁卓礼安(Liam Jeory)在一则声明中写道，“多年前，我们启动了严苛的甄选程序，和阮宝黄签订了授权发展商合约，这是选择的结果。当阮宝黄还是在美国求学的年轻学生时，他就在麦当劳做过兼职，当时，他对自己开发的品牌注入了强烈的激情。”
Food industry experts say McDonald’s and other American fast-food brands typically market themselves in Asia as a lifestyle choice for the middle class, rather than as an inexpensive option for the poor, and that their Vietnam strategy is no exception.
食品行业专家说，在亚洲，麦当劳和其他美国速食品牌做推销时，通常把自己定位为中产阶级的风尚选择，而不是穷人的便宜选择，他们在越南的策略也不例外。
Meals at a Burger King on Lo Duc Street in Hanoi were selling the other day for 65,000 dong ($3) — twice what Nguyen Thi Hang Nga charges for a bowl of pho in her restaurant across the street, where patrons sit on blue plastic stools.
不久前，位于河内洛达克街的汉堡王快餐售价6.5万越南盾（约合18元人民币）——是街对面的阮氏恒娥（Nguyen Thi Hang Nga，音译）一碗越南粉卖价的两倍，那里的顾客坐在蓝色塑料凳上。
“That food may be tasty, but it’s expensive for normal Vietnamese,” Ms. Nga said of the American company’s offerings. A 2012 report by the market forecaster Euromonitor International predicted that Vietnam’s food service industry would grow to $670 million in 2015, from $383 million in 2010, according to Lucia Vancura of Promar Consulting, a firm in Tokyo that advises on food and agriculture. However, she said, the exact parameters of “fast food” were not clearly defined in the forecast. 
阮氏恒娥这么评价这家美国公司供应的餐食，“那种餐食也许味道不错，可是对普通越南人来说就贵了。”露西娅·万丘拉(Lucia Vancura)来自一家位于东京的提供食品和农业咨询的公司Promar Consulting，据她说，市场预测公司欧睿信息咨询公司(Euromonitor International)在2012年的报告里就曾预测，越南餐饮服务行业将从2010年的3.83亿美元，增至2015年的6.7亿美元。不过，她说，这份预测没有清晰地界定“快餐”的确切范围。
Industry experts say that although Vietnam’s fast-food market is far from saturated, multinationals trying to expand their operations face logistical challenges.
行业专家表示，尽管越南的快餐市场远未饱和，然而试图扩张业务的跨国公司依然面临后勤方面的挑战。
One is finding affordable and central sites in the smallish downtown areas of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, where competition is fierce and monthly rents in prime locations can reach as much as $19 a square foot, according to Richard Leech, executive director at the Vietnam office of CBRE, a real estate consulting firm based in Los Angeles. He said fast-food companies in the United States typically paid about $6 a square foot. 
总部位于洛杉矶的房地产咨询公司世邦魏理仕(CBRE)驻越南办事处执行董事理查德·利奇(Richard Leech)表示，一个挑战是在河内和胡志明市狭小的市中心寻找价位合理、位置居中的营业场所，这些地段的竞争激烈，好位置的月租金可高达每平方英尺19美元。他说，在美国，快餐公司的租金通常是每平方英尺6美元。
Another obstacle is establishing an efficient food distribution and refrigeration network that extends into second-tier cities. 
另一个障碍则是建立高效的、深入二线城市的食品配送和冷藏网络。
Some international companies have found they need to adapt their food to local tastes. The South Korean bakery chain Paris Baguette offers multiple variations on the banh mi, a Vietnamese sandwich that typically includes sliced pork and sprigs of cilantro. KFC serves rice and seafood alongside its fried chicken, and both Starbucks and Dunkin’ Donuts brew beverages to appeal to the Vietnamese penchant for extra-sweet coffee. 
一些国际公司已经察觉，他们需要调整自己的食品以适应当地口味。韩国面包连锁店巴黎贝甜(Paris Baguette)提供多种不同的越式三明治越式法包(banh mi)，典型的越式法包中有猪肉片和嫩香菜叶。肯德基在提供炸鸡的同时，还提供米饭和海鲜，星巴克和唐恩都乐(Dunkin’ Donuts)都调制了特别的饮料，以迎合越南人对特甜咖啡的嗜好。
Nguyen Hoang Anh, the 23-year-old who loves fast food, said before lunch on a recent weekday that he welcomed American brands to Vietnam, partly because he had never liked Vietnamese food very much. He said eating hamburgers and fried chicken reminded him of living in Australia, where he earned a degree three years ago in design and visual communications.
23岁的阮璜映喜爱快餐，最近的一个工作日，他在午餐前说，他欢迎美国餐饮品牌进入越南，部分原因是他对越南食品从来都不怎么感冒。他说，吃汉堡和炸鸡让他想起自己在澳大利亚的时光，三年前，他在那里获得了设计和视觉传媒学位。
“It’s not as complex — it doesn’t have many mixed flavors, like Vietnamese food,” Mr. Anh said. Nguyen Thi My Hao, his girlfriend, shook her head and said Mr. Anh’s fast-food habit was a disappointment to his mother.
阮璜映说，“它不像越南菜那么复杂——它没有那么多的混合口味。”她的女友阮氏美昊摇摇头，说阮煌英的快餐习惯让自己的母亲感到失望。