Mai Jia, a top-selling Chinese espionage novelist and former soldier, has been writing about secrets for years.
中国的畅销谍战小说家麦家曾是一名军人，多年来一直以机密作为写作主题。
In his half-dozen novels, Mr. Mai, who has sold millions of books and won many Chinese literary awards, including the Mao Dun Literature Prize, describes intrigue at home that most Chinese, let alone non-Chinese, know nothing about.
麦家撰写了六七本小说，销量达数百万本，还赢得了包括茅盾文学奖在内的诸多奖项。他描写的那些发生在本土的阴谋诡计不为多数国人所知，更别提外国人了。
But his work has taken on a new sense of urgency as the world adjusts to the scale of surveillance by American intelligence agencies that has been revealed by Edward J. Snowden, a former contractor for the National Security Agency in the United States.
不过，当全世界在消化美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)原承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)揭露出来的有关该国情报机构监控规模的信息之时，麦家的作品被赋予了一种新的紧迫感。
Mr. Mai says his message, available for the first time in English next month when his novel ‘‘Decoded’’ comes out in the United States and Britain, is about more than China; it’s about the world.
麦家的小说《解密》(Decoded)将于下月在美国和英国推出，从而首次以英文的形式问世。他认为，自己传达的讯息并不局限于中国，而是涵盖全世界。
‘‘I feel this world is filled with secrets. People are very secretive. People are animals that are very protective of themselves,’’ he said over lunch in an upscale development in the hills west of Hangzhou, where he lives. ‘‘Those of us who went through the Cultural Revolution have experienced how truth and falsehood can’t be distinguished. The truth is not ‘out there,’’’ he said, a glimmer in his eyes.
“我觉得世界充满了秘密。人很神秘。人是一种把自己保护得很好的动物，”在他生活的杭州西部山中的高档住宅区里，他就着午餐说。“我们这些经历过文革的人知道，真理和谬误之间没法区分。真理并不是‘外在的’，”他的眼中闪着光。
There is a secretive quality to Mr. Mai too. ‘‘I’m mildly socially phobic,’’ he said. The author, 50, spent 17 years in the People’s Liberation Army, some of that time among top-secret cryptographers in an undisclosed location, he said. Bullied as a child for being from a politically ‘‘bad’’ family, paradise for him is a secluded library, as it was for Jorge Luis Borges of Argentina, his literary hero.
麦家本人也颇为神秘。“我有点轻度的社交恐惧症，”他说。这位作家现年50岁，曾在人民解放军里度过17年生涯。他披露，军旅生涯的一段时间，他曾在某机密地点与最高级的密码解译员一起共事。由于家庭“成分”不好，他童年时受到欺凌。对他来说，一座僻静的图书馆就是天堂，像自己的文学偶像、阿根廷的豪尔赫·路易斯·博尔赫斯(Jorge Luis Borges)一样。
In ‘‘Decoded,’’ the main character, Rong Jinzhen, is an autistic math genius from an illustrious family, his talent and burden symbolized by a too-large head. He is hired by the military’s top secret Unit 701 to break two highly advanced codes — Code Purple and Code Black, both created by China’s No. 1, though unnamed, enemy. Rong experiences existential loneliness, loss and finally madness.
在《解密》一书中，主人翁容金珍是一名患有自闭症的数学天才，出身显赫。他顶着一颗大头，象征着他的才华与负担。为了破解两套极为先进的密码，即“紫密”和“黑密”，部队的绝密单位701将容金珍招致麾下。这两套密码都由中国的头号劲敌研发，不过并未点明到底是哪个国家。容金珍经历了种种生死攸关的孤寂和失落，最终发疯。
Rong and Mr. Snowden are two sides of the same coin, Mr. Mai said. ‘‘Both Snowden and Rong Jinzhen were abandoned by God,’’ he said. ‘‘The tragedy is that there are quite a few people like that in every country. Honestly, what Snowden revealed wasn’t America’s ugliness but today’s world. It has been hijacked by technology and whether we’re talking about Country Y or Country X I’m afraid I truly believe that as long as we use these technologies what we’ll get is this shady business.’’
麦家称，容金珍和斯诺登是一个硬币的两面。“可悲的是，不论是哪个国家都有相当一部分这样的人，”他说。“坦率说，斯诺登揭露的不是美国的丑，而是当今世界。这个世界被科技绑架了，不论是X国还是Y国，我忧郁地深信，只要他们拥有相应的技术，都会干出相应的勾当。”
Mr. Mai was born Jiang Benhu in 1964 (he changed his name as an adult) in Fuyang outside Hangzhou. He is lionized at home for his novels, some serialized for television or filmed. After ‘‘Decoded,’’ released in Chinese in 2002, came ‘‘In the Dark,’’ ‘‘The Message,’’ the ‘‘Whispers on the Wind’’ trilogy and ‘‘Knifepoint.’’ Translations into other languages are underway, said his agent, Gray Tan, who is based in Taiwan.
麦家于1964年出生在毗邻杭州的富阳，本名蒋本浒（成年后改名）。作为小说家，他在家乡是个名人，部分小说被改编成了电视连续剧或电影。2002年的中文版《解密》付梓之后，《暗算》、《风声》、《风语》（两卷），以及《刀尖》等作品接连问世。
Zhang Yiwu, a Peking University professor of Chinese literature, said in an interview with the Beijing newspaper Jinghua Times: ‘‘Usually I find the trouble with detective and spy fiction is that the spirit is too mathematical, there’s no human character or feelings. With Mai Jia’s works there’s a mathematical spirit, but also human character and feelings.’’
根据《京华时报》的报道，北京大学中文系教授张颐武曾表示，“我时常觉得侦探推理小说有一个麻烦，就是只有数学的精神，没有人性的情怀。但是，麦家的作品既有数学的精神，又有人性的情怀。”
What Westerners may be discovering about espionage — its ubiquity — Chinese have always lived with, David Der-Wei Wang, the Edward C. Henderson Professor of Chinese Literature at Harvard University, said in a telephone interview. ‘‘Spying, encryption, intrigue and secrecy,’’ he said, ‘‘have been part of human political and military engagement since ancient times.’’
哈佛大学(Harvard University)的爱德华·C·亨德森(Edward C. Henderson)中国文学讲座教授王德威接受电话采访时称，关于谍报活动的无孔不入，西方人或许是刚刚发现，但中国人一直都是深陷其中。“间谍、密码、阴谋和机密，自远古时代以来就一直是人类政治与军事交锋的一部分，”他说。
‘‘Mai Jia and his characters would argue that the ‘art’ and politics of spying and encryption are already ingrained in every level of our life,’’ Mr. Wang said. He added: ‘‘Heroes and heroines are accidental individual, even existential, figures, groping for a meaning that is always one step beyond full understanding.’’
“麦家和他笔下的人物会认为，间谍及密码的‘艺术’和政治性，已经植根于我们生活的方方面面，”王德威说。“男女主角是偶然的个体，甚至是带有浓厚的存在主义色彩。他们追寻意义，却总是距离完全理解这种意义有一步之遥。”
It’s a bleak vision. Mr. Mai said he was a ‘‘pessimist’’ about human nature.
这种看法颇为灰暗。麦家称，他对人性感到“悲观”。
His style is a mixture of ‘‘revolutionary historical romance, spy fiction perhaps inspired by Western sources, and the psychological thriller,’’ Mr. Wang said.
王德威表示，麦家的风格融汇了“革命历史演义、心理惊悚小说，以及大概是受西方启发的间谍小说”。
For Mr. Mai, entering the army at 17 was an escape from a difficult childhood. His family represented three dangerous ‘‘affronts’’ in the politics of the early People’s Republic of China: ‘‘landlord, religious and right.’’ One grandfather was a well-off farmer, one a Christian; his father was a ‘‘rightist’’ — in reality, Mr. Mai said, his father was picked to fill the commune’s quota of political enemies because he talked a lot and ‘‘exaggerated things.’’
对麦家而言，17岁参军意味着逃离艰苦的童年。他的家人中，存在中华人民共和国早期政治中的三类不良分子：地主、坏分子、右派。祖父和外祖父，一个是富农，另一个信仰基督教；父亲则被划为“右派”。麦家表示，实际情况是，父亲之所以被揪出来，是为了填满公社的反革命指标，原因不过是他话多，爱“吹牛皮”。
As a soldier he read whenever he could and shot guns as little as possible. He spent one of three years in Tibet in the early 1990s reading a single book: Borges’s short stories, ‘‘The Book of Sand.’’ Other literary loves are Franz Kafka and Stefan Zweig. ‘‘I loved Zweig because he wrote about fantastical people. And I wasn’t an ordinary person either.’’ Eventually, he left the army to write full time.
当兵的时候，他总是埋头读书，尽量避免与武器打交道。上世纪90年代初，他在西藏待了三年，其中一年只读了一本书：博尔赫斯的短篇小说集《沙之书》(The Book of Sand)。文学上，他还喜爱弗兰兹·卡夫卡(Franz Kafka)和斯蒂芬·茨威格(Stefan Zweig)。“我喜欢茨威格，因为他写的是稀奇古怪的人。我自己也不是个正常人。”后来，他离开部队，专事写作。
A lonely child, he kept a diary to have something to confide in. It has grown to 36 volumes. ‘‘I really grew up outside of society,’’ he said. ‘‘A formless wall surrounded me. I was very sealed off. But by being sealed off I was very strong. I lived in my imagination.’’
幼时孤独的他用日记来吐露心声，到现在已经记了36本。“我真的是在社会边缘长大的，”他说。“一堵无形的墙包围着我。我很封闭，就是因为封闭才很坚强。我活在想象的世界里。”
As if to illustrate that, the Chinese edition of ‘‘Whispers on the Wind’’ has a photograph of Mr. Mai on his daily jog in Hangzhou’s Botanical Gardens, on a path he stamped out with his own feet. ‘‘Clamor is our enemy,’’ is written underneath.
似乎是为了证明这一点，中文版的《风语》中，附上了一张麦家在杭州植物园散步的照片。这条路是他每天散步踏出来的。照片下面写着，“喧嚣终归是我们的敌人。”
‘‘Literature is a higher calling than politics,’’ he said in the interview. Later, in an email, he elaborated: ‘‘Literature gave me breadth and calm. God is by me. And I dare to talk with the devil.’’
“文学是比政治更高的使命，”他接受采访时说。在后来的一封电子邮件里，他又进一步解释：“文学让我变得宽广、坦然，上帝在我身边，我敢同魔鬼交谈。”