Under pressure to provide healthier meals, McDonald’s announced on Thursday that it would no longer market some of its less nutritional options to children and said it also planned to include offerings of fruits and vegetables in many of its adult menu combinations.
在提供更健康的膳食的压力下，麦当劳本周四宣布，它不再面向儿童营销一些营养成分较少的食物，而且计划在多种成人套餐中添加水果和蔬菜。
It plans to make the changes to its menu in 20 of the company’s largest markets, which account for more than 85 percent of its overall sales, including overseas. But it will take three years or more to put them into place in about half the restaurants in those markets, and the remainder may not have the changes until 2020.
麦当劳计划在其最大的20个市场上更改菜单，这些市场占据了该公司包括海外销售额在内的总销售额85％以上。但至少需要三年的时间，这些市场上大约一半的麦当劳餐厅才能调整到位，其他地方可能要等到2020年才会看到变化。
The offerings, which were announced in conjunction with the Clinton Foundation’s campaigns to reduce childhood obesity, are part of McDonald’s efforts to compete for health-conscious customers by featuring food choices that are lower in fat, salt or sugar content than its more traditional burger-and-fries options.
这些举措是跟克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)减少儿童肥胖的宣传活动一起发布的；麦当劳正在努力提供脂肪、盐或糖含量比传统“汉堡加薯条”更低的膳食，吸引具有健康意识的消费者，上述举措就是该工作的组成部分。
Although it has added salads, fruits and cut raw vegetables to its menu in recent years, the chain has experienced flat sales across much of its business in the United States and Europe, and forecast earlier this summer that little would alter the company’s financial picture anytime soon. The millennial generation, a key demographic that is being wooed by fast-casual restaurants like Panera Bread and Chipotle, in particular has not become a loyal patron of McDonald’s.
近几年来，虽然麦当劳连锁店的菜单上已经添加了沙拉、水果和生蔬菜，但在美国和欧洲的很多地方，它的销售额却没有起色，而且今年夏天早些时候的预测显示，该公司的财务状况在较长一段时间内都不会改善。尤其是，Panera Bread和Chipotle等快速休闲餐厅正在努力吸引的“千禧世代”消费者，尚未成为麦当劳的忠实顾客。
As part of the new menu changes, the company said it would use its arsenal of marketing tools, from menu boards to national television advertising campaigns, to help customers understand the nutritional choices available.
麦当劳表示，作为新菜单调整的一部分，该公司也将利用从菜单板到全国电视广告等各种营销工具，帮助顾客了解有哪些营养食品可供挑选。
“Companies like McDonald’s play a powerful role in shaping the culture and environment that influences the health-related behaviors of young people,” said Howell Wechsler, chief executive of the Alliance for a Healthier Generation, an organization set up by the Clinton Foundation and the American Heart Association to reduce obesity in children, which has reached epidemic levels in the United States and is growing globally.
“像麦当劳这样的公司，在培养文化和环境、影响年轻人的健康行为方面，发挥着重大作用。“健康一代”(Healthier Generation)组织的首席执行官霍威尔·维切斯勒(Howell Wechsler)说。该组织由克林顿基金会和美国心脏协会(American Heart Association)联合创办，旨在减少儿童肥胖问题，目前这个问题在美国已经扩散开来，并在全球范围内日趋严重。
McDonald’s new campaign was featured at the Clinton Global Initiative on Thursday in New York. Former President Clinton noted that similar agreements with the big soda companies to curb the sales of sugary drinks in schools were aimed at reducing the amount of sugar children consume.
周四，麦当劳新的宣传活动出现在纽约举办的“克林顿全球倡议”(Clinton Global Initiative)论坛上。美国前总统克林顿表示，与一些大型汽水公司达成了类似的协议，限制在学校里销售含糖饮料，目的是减少儿童的糖摄入量。
“If we want to curb the catastrophic economic and health implications of obesity across the world, we need more companies to follow McDonald’s lead and step up to the plate and make meaningful changes,” Mr. Clinton said in a news release.
克林顿在新闻发布会上说，“如果我们想遏制肥胖问题对全球经济和健康状况产生的灾难性影响，我们就需要有更多的公司效仿麦当劳，承担起责任，做出实质性改变。”
This latest move by McDonald’s, which it estimated would cost about $35 million, is one in a series of steps it has taken toward changing its menu to suit contemporary tastes and to try to address health concerns raised for years by nutritionists and other critics about the fat and caloric content of its food.
麦当劳预计将耗资3500万美元来贯彻这些最新举措。多年以来，营养学家和其他批评者对麦当劳食物的脂肪含量和热量表达了健康方面的担忧，该公司已经开始采取一系列步骤来调整菜单，以消除这种担忧，并适应流行的口味；麦当劳的最新举措就是一个例子。
It has added calorie counts to its menu boards in advance of a federal requirement for such labeling that goes into effect next year, and now sells options like egg-white McMuffins and premium wraps, which offer a choice of grilled rather than fried chicken rolled into a flour tortilla with lettuce, tomatoes and cucumbers.
麦当劳已经在菜单板上标注了食品的热量，早于联邦所要求的餐馆要在明年开始执行这种标注。而且麦当劳现在也提供蛋清松饼和高级菜卷之类的食物，后者是把烤制的、而不是炸制的鸡肉，跟生菜、西红柿和黄瓜一起，裹在一个玉米粉饼里。
The company also has faced rising competitive pressure from Subway, which has courted women aggressively with marketing promoting its healthier options, as well as from other chains. This week, Burger King unveiled a new way of making fries that reduced fat and calories, and earlier this year, that chain added a turkey burger to its menu.
来自其他快餐连锁店的竞争压力也不断加剧，比如赛百味(Subway)积极推广更加健康的食物，以吸引女性顾客的关注。本周，汉堡王(Burger King)推出了一种制作薯条的新方式，可以降低其脂肪含量和热量，今年早些时候，汉堡王还增加了新品种火鸡汉堡。
“We’ve been trying to optimize our menu with more fruits and vegetables and giving customers additional choices when they come to McDonald’s,” said Don Thompson, McDonald’s chief executive.
麦当劳的首席执行官唐·汤普森(Don Thompson)说，“我们一直在努力改进菜单，多提供水果和蔬菜，让麦当劳的顾客拥有更多选择。”
He ticked off some of those additions, like smoothies, salads and whole grains in oatmeal. “This is a particular opportunity to partner with the Clinton Foundation and the alliance to leverage our scale and size and marketing prowess to be able to influence more purchases of fruits and vegetables,” Mr. Thompson said.
他列举了一些新品种，比如水果冰沙、沙拉和全谷物燕麦片。汤普森说，“这是一个不寻常的机会，跟克林顿基金会和大家合作，利用我们的规模和营销能力，促使人们购买更多的水果和蔬菜。”
He said McDonald’s would be working with its supply chains to ensure it had access to enough produce and to add different types of produce to its lineup. “We don’t go down to the grocery stores,” he said with a chuckle. “It does put some strain on the supply chain, but one of the great things about this partnership is that we have some time to make sure there are ample fruits and vegetables for us to use.”
他说，麦当劳将跟供应商合作，以确保获得足够多的农产品，并把不同的农产品添加到其膳食中去。“我们不是去食品超市买东西，”他笑着说，“这些举措会给供应链带来一些压力，但这项合作最棒的事情之一就是，我们有时间来确保有充足的水果和蔬菜可以供我们使用。”
Customers choosing one of its “value meals,” which typically include a sandwich or wrap, French fries and a drink, will have the option of having a side salad or a piece of fruit or a vegetable in lieu of the fries.
麦当劳的“超值套餐”通常包含一个三明治或菜卷、薯条和一杯饮料，顾客们现在可以选一碗沙拉，或者水果、蔬菜来取代薯条。
On its menu boards and in-store promotions, and through advertising campaigns, McDonald’s said it would promote juice, low-fat milk and water as the drink choices for its Happy Meals for children, although customers would still be able to buy soda.
在它的菜单板、店内促销招贴，以及宣传活动中，麦当劳表示，它在出售儿童“开心乐园餐”时，饮料会推荐果汁、低脂牛奶和水，但顾客仍可以购买汽水。
It also plans to promote fruits and vegetables in “fun ways” on its Happy Meals packaging, with advertising aimed at children to include messages about nutrition and well-being.
该公司还计划采用“有趣的方式”来宣传“开心乐园餐”中配搭的水果和蔬菜，面向儿童的广告将介绍跟营养和健康有关的知识。
McDonald’s said its compliance with these commitments would be verified by a third-party institution.
麦当劳公司表示，对这些承诺的遵守状况可以由第三方机构进行验证。