“I was called a whore and a witch,” Madonna said on Friday in a searing speech about the sexism and bullying that women face in the music industry and the culture at large.
“有人说我是妓女，是巫婆，”周五，麦当娜(Madonna)在一场关于女性在音乐界和更广泛的文化界受到的性别歧视和霸凌的犀利演讲中说。
“Such a nasty woman,” Donald J. Trump interjected in October as Hillary Clinton pointed out holes in his Social Security plan during their final presidential debate.
“真是个恶毒的女人，”在今年10月的最后一次总统辩论中，当希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)指出唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的社会安全福利计划中的漏洞时，后者插嘴说。
Madonna and Mrs. Clinton: both trailblazers, both polarizing figures, and both attacked for actions, choices and behavior that are broadly accepted — even applauded — when done by their male peers. Madonna herself made a connection between the two women before her speech Friday, saying it was “really important to make a stand and speak my mind” about women’s rights after Mrs. Clinton’s loss in November.
麦当娜和克林顿：都是开拓者，都是颇具争议的人物，都因为某些举动、选择和行为而遭到攻击——而这些行为如果是男性做出的，就会得到广泛接受甚至赞扬。在周五的演讲前，麦当娜本人把这两名女性联系在一起，称克林顿在11月的大选中落败后，在女性权利方面，“表明我的立场，说出我的想法非常重要。”
Our pop music editor, Caryn Ganz, and deputy Culture editor and former political correspondent Patrick Healy looked at how Madonna and her speech put Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy in fresh perspective.
我们的流行音乐编辑卡琳·甘兹(Caryn Ganz)和文化副主编、前政治记者帕特里克·希利(Patrick Healy)共同探讨了麦当娜和她的讲话如何让我们从一个新的视角去看待克林顿的竞选。
PATRICK HEALY: Caryn, I’m coming off 18 months covering the presidential campaign, and frankly I’ve been wondering if Mrs. Clinton would ever give a speech like Madonna’s on Friday — calling out sexism in America and the rules that trap women but not men. “If you’re a girl, you have to play the game,” Madonna said. “Don’t have an opinion that’s out of line with the status quo.” Madonna and Mrs. Clinton have been controversial in part because they didn’t play “the game.” It’s easy to forget, amid their celebrity and longevity, that Madonna and Mrs. Clinton were once renegades: speaking out and pursuing power in ways that were considered overly ambitious for women. They fought for equality and respect — and they sought the kind of influence and money and fame that men have. Mrs. Clinton’s place and legacy in our culture is just starting to be considered and debated. But only after her speech yesterday did I start to think about her and Madonna as sisters in arms.
帕特里克·希利：卡琳，我花了18个月时间报道总统大选，坦白地讲，我在想，克林顿是否永远都不可能发表像麦当娜在周五的那种演讲——大声疾呼美国的性别歧视问题和仅针对女性的束缚规则。“如果你是女孩，你必须遵守游戏规则，”麦当娜说，“不要产生与现状不符的想法。”麦当娜和克林顿具有争议的一个原因是，她们不遵守“规则”。由于麦当娜和克林顿的名气和持久影响力，我们很容易忘记，她们都曾是叛逆者：她们发表意见和追求权力的方式被认为对于女性来说过于野心勃勃。她们争取平等和尊重——她们追求男人拥有的那种影响力、金钱和名声。克林顿在我们文化中的地位和影响力刚开始被考虑和争论。但是，在昨天的演讲之后，我才开始把她和麦当娜视为战友。
CARYN GANZ: Mrs. Clinton is so buttoned up and Madonna is so, well, unbuttoned, that I think many people have been hesitant to make this connection. And because Madonna has used sexual expressiveness as code for all kinds of liberation, she hasn’t been courted as a political ally. But now that both of them have reached a certain age, the sexism they’ve faced for decades has become something more insidious, paired with ageism.
卡琳·甘兹：克林顿总是穿得很保守，而麦当娜呢，很开放，所以我认为，很多人不大会把她们联系在一起。麦当娜把性表达作为各种解放的代号，所以没有人会来争取她作政治盟友。但是现在，她们两个都到了一定的年龄，她们数十年来面对的性别歧视已经变成了某种潜在的负面影响，与年龄歧视结合在一起。
HEALY: A lot of people don’t see sexism hurting Mrs. Clinton — after all, she won the Democratic nomination — but she and her advisers did. As for the sort of “liberation” that Madonna pioneered, Mrs. Clinton has a complicated relationship with it. She came of age in the era of women’s lib, and yet — to help Bill Clinton’s career in Arkansas — she changed her last name from Rodham to Clinton and got new hairstyles and glasses. And when she was most visibly liberated, including in her hard-charging performances in political debates, she got called “likable enough” by Barack Obama in 2008 and a “nasty woman” by Mr. Trump this fall. Madonna, in her speech Friday, recalled that she got so much abuse after releasing her “Erotica” album and “Sex” book in 1992 that she felt like “the most hated person on the planet.”
希利：很多人并没有看到性别歧视对克林顿的伤害——毕竟，她获得了民主党的提名——但是，她和她的顾问们看到了。至于麦当娜开创的那种“解放”，克林顿与它的关系比较复杂。她成年时，正是女性解放的时代，但是为了帮助比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)在阿肯色州的事业，她把自己的姓从罗德姆(Rodham)改为克林顿，换了新发型和眼镜。在她的解放精神表现得最为明显时，包括在政治辩论中表现强硬时，她得到的回应是：2008年，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)说她“够招人喜欢了”；今年秋天，特朗普说她是个“恶毒的女人”。麦当娜在周五的演讲中回忆说，1992年，她发布专辑《Erotica》和写真《Sex》后，遭到很多辱骂，她感觉自己是“世界上最被厌恶的人”。
GANZ: In a 2008 “Weekend Update” segment about Mrs. Clinton’s initial presidential run, Tina Fey said: “Maybe what bothers me the most is that people say that Hillary is a bitch. Let me say something about that: Yeah, she is.” (Ms. Fey later proclaimed, “Bitch is the new black.”) I thought about this when Madonna put the song “Unapologetic Bitch” on her most recent album, “Rebel Heart,” the record where she started to speak openly about the discrimination she’s faced as a female artist over 55. Madonna has referred to herself in many ways in songs over the years, but she waited until 2015, on her 13th album, to reclaim “bitch.”
甘兹：2008年，蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)在“周末新闻”(Weekend Update)版块提到克林顿的第一次总统竞选时说，“也许最困扰我的是，人们说希拉里是个婊子(bitch)。说说我的看法吧：她当然是啦（蒂娜·菲后来声称，“婊子是新潮流”）。当麦当娜把歌曲《不以为耻的婊子》(Unapologetic Bitch)放入她的最新专辑《叛逆的心》(Rebel Heart)中时，我想到了这一点。在这张专辑中，她开始公开谈论作为一名年逾55岁的女艺人所面临的歧视。多年来麦当娜在歌中用过很多方式称呼自己，但直到2015年，她才在自己的第13张专辑中启用“婊子”这个称号。
HEALY: Mrs. Clinton knew some people used that word about her. Like Madonna, she answered the haters with a strong work ethic. Mrs. Clinton put in 18-hour days, thought deeply about policy, and was a tireless campaigner even if she wasn’t the world’s most natural politician. Madonna is no Adele: She wasn’t born with a once-in-a-generation talent and voice. But she succeeded through work, grit and guts.
希利：克林顿知道有些人用这个词称呼她。和麦当娜一样，她用强硬的职业道德回应那些厌恶她的人。克林顿每天工作18个小时，深入思考政策。她在竞选中不知疲倦，尽管她并不是世界上最有天赋的政治家。麦当娜不像阿黛尔(Adele)：她不是天生就有难得一见的天分和嗓音。但是她通过工作、毅力和勇气取得了成功。
GANZ: But she was born with a once-in-a-generation ability to understand and command the power of connecting her voice to her image. Nobody did this the way Madonna did before her, though many have followed her example. Knowing that as a woman, her appearance would be a talking point, Madonna co-opted this scrutiny as a weapon from the beginning of her career, forcing everyone to talk about what she looked like by evolving — it was a conversation she essentially started herself. But as she has gotten older, the commentary about her work is almost entirely centered on how she looks rather than how she sounds, and whether what she is wearing or saying is “appropriate for a woman her age” — a question that musicians like Mick Jagger, who is 15 years older than Madonna, have never had to answer. And certainly no other candidate was the subject of stories about what he wore to the debate and what his clothes meant. (Continuing investigations into Mr. Trump’s hair aside.)
甘兹：不过，她天生就能理解并掌控把声音和形象联系起来的力量，这是很难得的。在麦当娜之前，从未有人像她做得这么好，虽然后来有很多人效仿她。麦当娜知道，作为一名女性，她的外貌将是一个话题，所以她在出道之初就把这种审视用作武器，通过不断变化迫使所有人谈论她的外貌——那是一场主要由她自己发起的对话。但是，随着她年龄增长，关于她作品的评论几乎完全集中在她的外貌上，而非歌声上，集中在她的穿着或言论是否与“她这个年纪的女性相匹配”上——而比麦当娜年长15岁的米克·贾格尔(Mick Jagger)等音乐人就从来不必回答这个问题。当然，其他候选人参加辩论时的着装以及着装的意义也不会被写成报道（关于特朗普头发的持续调查另当别论）。
HEALY: I remember Mrs. Clinton telling me during the 2008 race that she probably woke up two hours earlier than Barack Obama each day because she had to do her hair and makeup, and he could just roll out of bed and into a suit. She has had no room for error in what she says or how she looks, her advisers felt, while a candidate like Mr. Trump could sound like a crazy man on Twitter, and many voters shrugged. Then again, Mrs. Clinton is far more of a perfectionist than Mr. Trump, as is Madonna.
希利：我记得克林顿在2008年竞选时曾对我说，她每天可能要比贝拉克·奥巴马早起两个小时，因为她得做头发、化妆，而他只需要下床穿上套装就行了。她的顾问们觉得，她在言论和形象方面不能有任何差池，而特朗普这样的候选人就可以在Twitter上表现得像个疯子，很多选民对此只是耸耸肩而已。此外，克林顿和麦当娜一样，比特朗普更追求完美。
GANZ: But Madonna and Mrs. Clinton have had their perfectionism interpreted as a pathology. As women cutting a path no woman had traveled before, they had no choice but to be as precise and detail-oriented as possible, knowing the slightest failure would invite a deluge of criticism. Madonna is known to control every aspect of rooms in which she will appear, down to the color of the lampshades. While Mr. Trump was making brash statements, Mrs. Clinton was tweeting point-by-point policy plans and rigorously preparing for the debates.
甘兹：但是，麦当娜和克林顿的完美主义被解读为一种病态。她们在开辟女性从未走过的道路，所以她们别无选择，只有尽可能地精准，不放过任何细节，她们知道连最轻微的失误都会招致洪水般的批评。据说，麦当娜会控制她要亮相的房间的所有细节，包括灯罩的颜色。特朗普在发表鲁莽的声明时，克林顿在Twitter上逐点详述政策计划，一丝不苟地为辩论做准备。
HEALY: But Mrs. Clinton could also take control too far, like keeping her State Department email on a private server. “I don’t want any risk of the personal being accessible,” she wrote in 2010. And in 2008, she rarely talked about being a woman because she wanted to control her image — she wanted voters to think she would be as tough as any male commander in chief.
希利：不过，克林顿也可能控制得太多了，比如，她把自己在国务院任职期间的邮件放在私人服务器上。“我不想冒险让任何人接触到，”她在2010年写道。2008年，她很少谈论自己身为女性的感受，因为她想控制自己的形象——她想让选民们认为，她将和任何男性三军统帅一样强硬。
GANZ: Trailblazing is a solitary game. They’re both lonely warriors who reached a critical moment this year: the time when they had to speak up for their achievements and call out their haters.
甘兹：开拓是孤独的游戏。她们都是孤独的勇士，今年她们到了一个关键时刻：她们不得不宣扬自己的成就，与厌恶她们的人当面对质。
HEALY: Mrs. Clinton has been labeled power-hungry since she was a young woman. And it drove her crazy, advisers said, because Mr. Trump and other men never faced that accusation. She felt held to the double standard that Madonna spoke about on Friday. I can imagine Mrs. Clinton listening to that speech and just saying “Yaaaas” over and over.
希利：克林顿年轻时就被指责权力欲强。她的顾问们称，这让她很难接受，因为特朗普等男性从未受到这样的指责。她感觉自己遭遇了双重标准，那正是麦当娜周五所提到的。我可以想像，克林顿在听麦当娜的这次演讲时，嘴上会不断念叨着“对对对啊”。