The Chinese outlets of McDonald’s and KFC have stopped using meat from a Shanghai company after a local television news program accused the supplier of using chicken and beef past their expiration date, triggering an investigation by local food safety officials.
麦当劳和肯德基的中国分店已停止使用一家上海公司提供的产品，此前，一个地方电视台在其新闻节目中指责该公司用过期的鸡肉和牛肉，当地食品安全官员已介入调查。
The program, aired on Shanghai-based Dragon TV on Sunday evening, showed hidden camera footage of workers at a meat-processing facility operated by Shanghai Husi Food using out-of-date chicken and beef to make burger patties and chicken products for McDonald’s and KFC, in some cases scooping up meat that had fallen onto the assembly line floor and throwing it back into a processing machine.
节目由总部在上海的东方卫视于周日晚间播出，其中有用隐藏的摄影机拍摄的镜头，显示了上海福喜食品有限公司加工厂的工人用过期的鸡肉和牛肉为麦当劳和肯德基制作汉堡肉饼和鸡肉产品，在一个镜头中，工人把从生产线上掉下来肉捡起来，扔回加工机中。
In response, the Chinese units of McDonald’s and KFC both said in news releases posted from their official Sina Weibo social messaging accounts that they had halted use of all products from Shanghai Husi, which is owned by the OSI Group, based in Aurora, Ill.
麦当劳和肯德基的中国部门都在各自的新浪微博官方帐号上登了新闻发布，对此作出回应，表示他们已停止使用来自上海福喜食品的所有产品，上海福喜食品隶属于总部设在伊利诺伊州奥罗拉市的欧喜集团(OSI Group)。
The Shanghai Food and Drug Administration said in a Sina Weibo post late Sunday that it had suspended production at Shanghai Husi and had begun a joint investigation with the local police into accusations that the processing plant was using out-of-date meat in its products.
上海市食品药物监督管理局周日晚在新浪微博发帖表示，已停止了上海福喜食品的生产，并与当地警方一起，就加工厂使用过期肉类的指控，开始行进联合调查。
Food safety has been a hot-button issue among Chinese people in recent years, and nationwide scandals have broken out after revelations about the contamination of products like infant formula and cooking oil.
食品安全是中国人近年来关心的热点问题，在比如婴儿奶粉和食油等产品中掺假的问题被曝光，已引发了几起全国性丑闻。
Multinational fast-food giants like KFC, which is owned by Yum Brands, and McDonald’s are generally perceived as having better quality-control standards. But they, too, have previously become mired in such scandals in China.
像麦当劳以及百胜餐饮集团拥有的肯德基这样的跨国快餐巨头，通常被人们认为有更好的质量控制标准。但是他们此前也曾陷入过中国的这类丑闻。
For example, Yum’s sales in China slumped after state media reports in late 2012 accused it of using chickens tainted with excessive use of antibiotics. The company, which also owns the Taco Bell and Pizza Hut brands, had 6,200 outlets in China at the end of last year that accounted for $6.9 billion of Yum’s $13 billion in total revenue in 2013.
比如，中国官方媒体曾在2012年底指控百胜用的鸡肉被过量使用抗生素污染，之后百胜在中国的销售下滑。百胜还拥有塔可钟和必胜客品牌，截至去年底，公司在中国共有6,200个营业网点，百胜2013年的总营业收入是130亿美元（相当于807亿元人民币），其中有69亿美元来自中国市场。