Japan’s finance minister on Thursday publicly retracted comments he made this week that appeared to call on Japan’s current conservative government to emulate Hitler’s takeover of prewar Germany. The gaffe underscored the potential for disputes over Japan’s own wartime history to derail its popular prime minister, Shinzo Abe.
周四，日本财务大臣周四公开表示收回他在本周的言论，那些言论似乎是在号召日本当前的保守派政府仿效希特勒(Hitler)接管战前德国的举措。这次失言突显了一种可能性，即人们可能会对日本的战时历史进行争论，破坏广受欢迎的首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的计划。
The finance minister, Taro Aso, insisted that his comments on Monday, in which he seemed to say that Japan should learn how the Nazi party quietly rewrote Germany’s Constitution, were taken out of context. Faced with growing criticism in Japan and abroad, he countered that he had never meant to praise the Nazis. He said he had hoped to prompt debate in Japan over whether to change its current pacifist Constitution to allow a full-fledged military, as many conservatives now seek.
财务大臣麻生太郎(Taro Aso)坚称，他在周一发表的言论被人进行了断章取义的解释，他当时似乎表示，日本应该学习纳粹党不知不觉地修改德国宪法(Constitution)的手段。面对国内外越来越多的批评，麻生太郎反驳称，他从未想要称赞纳粹分子。他表示，自己确曾希望在日本推动相关辩论，论题是该不该修改目前的和平宪法，允许日本拥有完整规模的军队，就像很多保守派人士目前寻求的一样。
Still, the uproar over the comments by Mr. Aso, an outspoken nationalist who is also known for slips of the tongue, seemed to confirm the fears of some Japanese and other Asians that members of Mr. Abe’s government want to revise current views of World War II to present Imperial Japan, an ally of Nazi Germany, in a more positive light. The gaffe was also the latest in a string of recent events, including nationalistic displays by South Korean and Japanese fans at a soccer game, that have raised concerns that disagreements over interpreting the war could isolate Japan from the rest of Asia, where there are still bitter memories of Japan’s early 20th-century empire building.
尽管如此，麻生太郎的言论引发的骚动似乎证实了一些日本人及其他亚洲人的担忧，他们担心安倍政府的成员想要改变人们对二战的看法，更加正面地展示纳粹德国(Nazi Germany)的盟友——大日本帝国(Imperial Japan)。麻生太郎是一名直言不讳的民族主义者，因时常失言而著称。近期出现的一系列事件——比如韩日球迷在一场足球比赛中的民族主义表现——致使人们担心，战争解读方面的分歧可能会导致日本被亚洲其他国家孤立，这些国家仍然对日本在20世纪早期的帝国扩张行为怀有怨恨。麻生的此次失言为这一系列事件添上了最新的一笔。
The comments come at a time when there has been intense attention on where Mr. Abe, who has long been a leading figure on Japan’s far right, might lead his long-rudderless nation after his governing Liberal Democratic Party’s decisive victory in upper house elections last month. Critics have speculated that he may adopt a nationalistic agenda like the one he pursued during his first term as prime minister seven years ago, when he drew outrage in South Korea and even the United States for denying that Koreans and women from other conquered nations had been forced to serve as prostitutes for Japanese soldiers during the war.
麻生太郎发表此番言论之时，人们正在密切关注，执政党自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)上个月在参议院选举中获得决定性胜利后，安倍晋三会带领这个长期没有主心骨的国家走向何方。安倍晋三长期以来都是日本极右翼的领军人物。批评人士曾推测，安倍晋三可能会捡起他七年前第一次担任首相时推进的民族主义议程。当时，安倍晋三否认韩国人及其他被征服国的女性曾在战争期间被迫充当妓女，为日本士兵提供服务，由此激怒了韩国，甚至美国。
However, Mr. Abe has so far appeared to steer clear of such historical controversies, focusing his second term on policies to revive Japan’s stagnant economy. The question, analysts say, is whether Mr. Abe and members of his government, who have spoken of restoring not only Japan’s economy but also its pride, can keep adhering to the politically successful moderate line.
不过，到目前为止，安倍似乎一直回避此类历史争议问题，在第二任期内重点关注振兴日本停滞经济的政策。分析人士表示，关键问题是安倍及其政府成员能否坚持采用政治上非常成功的温和路线，他们曾表示不仅要重振日本经济，还要恢复日本的自豪感。
“Mr. Abe knows that with one wrong word he can undo all that he has accomplished,” said Harumi Arima, an independent political commentator. “The stock market is up, and so are his approval ratings, so he is being very careful not to say the wrong things that bring this all crashing down again.”
“安倍晋三知道，说错一个词，他所有的成就都会毁于一旦，”独立政治评论员马晴美(Harumi Arima)说。“股市已经上扬，他的支持率也上去了，所以他正在非常小心地避免说错话，免得这些指标再次剧跌。”
The uproar this week over his finance minister’s comments highlight how emotions over events more than 70 years ago remain potent enough to damage Mr. Abe politically and hurt ties with not only Asian neighbors but also, potentially, the United States, the postwar guarantor of Japan’s military security.
安倍晋三的财政大臣本周的言论引发了人们的愤怒，这个事实表明，人们对70多年前那些事件的情绪仍然足以对安倍晋三的政治生涯造成负面影响，不仅会损害日本与其亚洲邻国之间的关系，还可能会对美日关系造成损害。二战后，美国一直在为日本的军事安全提供保证。
The episode began on Monday when Mr. Aso was discussing with a conservative study group how to achieve the long-held rightist goal of revising the Constitution, which was written by American occupiers after the war. Mr. Aso, who served as prime minister five years ago, said they should look at how Hitler’s Nazi party had changed the Constitution of the prewar Weimar Republic “without anyone noticing.”
事情发生在周一，当时麻生太郎正在与一个保守派学习组讨论如何实现右派长期秉持的修宪目标。日本宪法是占领日本的美国人在战后起草的。曾于五年前担任日本首相的麻生太郎说，他们应该看一看，希特勒的纳粹党如何在“无人察觉”的情况下修改了战前魏玛共和国(Weimar Republic)的宪法的。
“Maybe we should learn from their techniques,” Mr. Aso said.
麻生太郎说，“或许我们应该学习他们的技巧。”
It was unclear what Mr. Aso meant, since he had earlier in the same talk criticized the Nazis for usurping the Weimar Constitution, which he praised as the most progressive in Europe at the time. Still, the later comment brought an outpouring of criticism for appearing to point to the Nazis as a model, as well as presenting what historians called an incorrect view of what was actually a violent takeover by the Nazis.
麻生太郎究竟是什么意思，目前尚不清楚。同一次谈话当中的早些时候，他还曾谴责纳粹党篡改魏玛共和国宪法的行为，称赞魏玛宪法是当时欧洲最先进的宪法。尽管如此，他随后的言论还是引来了大量指责，因为他似乎把纳粹分子当成了楷模。此外，历史学家认为他的这种观点是错误的，纳粹的行为其实是暴力夺权。
The comments created an immediate uproar in Asia, where the South Korean and Chinese news media portrayed them as yet more evidence that Mr. Abe has been leading his nation to the nationalistic right. The comments also drew criticism from some in the United States, a more worrisome development for Mr. Abe, who has vowed to maintain close ties as Japan faces tension with China over disputed islands.
麻生太郎的言论立即在亚洲引起了公愤，韩国和中国的新闻媒体都认为，这些言论再次证明，安倍晋三一直在带领日本走向民族主义的右倾立场。这些言论还遭到了一些美国人的批判，这种情况令安倍晋三更为不安。鉴于中日两国因为岛屿争端而关系紧张，安保曾承诺要与美国保持密切联系。
On Tuesday, the Simon Wiesenthal Center, a Jewish human rights group based in Los Angeles, posted a statement on its Web site demanding that Mr. Aso explain himself.
周二，设在洛杉矶的犹太人权组织西蒙·维森塔尔中心(Simon Wiesenthal Center)在中心的网站上发表声明，要求麻生太郎对此作出解释。
“What ‘techniques’ from the Nazis’ governance are worth learning — how to stealthily cripple democracy?” the statement asked.
上述声明还质问，“纳粹统治有什么‘技巧’值得学习——难道是如何暗地里颠覆民主吗？”