HOW do you take particles in a test tube, or components in a tiny chip, and turn them into a $100 million company?
怎么才能把试管里的小颗粒或者微小芯片的构件变成价值1亿美元的公司呢？
Dr. Robert Langer, 64, knows how. Since the 1980s, his Langer Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has spun out companies whose products treat cancer, diabetes, heart disease and schizophrenia, among other diseases, and even thicken hair.
64岁的罗伯特·兰格(Robert Langer)博士深谙此道。从20世纪80年代起，他在麻省理工(MIT)开设的兰格实验室(Langer Lab)帮助催生了一家又一家公司，这些公司生产各种药物，治疗癌症、糖尿病、心脏病、精神分裂症等疾病，甚至还生产增发液。
The Langer Lab is on the front lines of turning discoveries made in the lab into a range of drugs and drug delivery systems. Without this kind of technology transfer, the thinking goes, scientific discoveries might well sit on the shelf, stifling innovation.
作为一流研究机构，兰格实验室把内部发现转化成了一系列药物和给药系统（drug delivery systems，指各种治疗药物传送到人体的不同组织——编注）。没有这样的技术转化，灵感只能一闪而过，科学成果也许会被束之高阁，创新的脚步就会停顿下来。
A chemical engineer by training, Dr. Langer has helped start 25 companies and has 811 patents, issued or pending, to his name. That’s not too far behind Thomas Edison, who had 1,093. More than 250 companies have licensed or sublicensed Langer Lab patents.
兰格博士通过培训成为一名化学工程师，已有25家公司在他的帮助下起步。包括已经得到批准和正在申请的，他的名下共有811项专利。这和托马斯·爱迪生(Thomas Edison)的1093项相差的并不多。通过授权和再授权，这些专利得到了250多家公司的应用。
Polaris Venture Partners, a Boston venture capital firm, has invested $220 million in 18 Langer Lab-inspired businesses. Combined, these businesses have improved the health of many millions of people, says Terry McGuire, co-founder of Polaris.
风险投资公司北极星投资(Polaris Venture Partners)设在波士顿，已向18家借兰格实验室启发而成立的公司投资了2.2亿美元。北极星投资联合创始人特里·麦克奎尔(Terry McGuire)介绍说，这18家公司已经改善了数百万人的健康状况。
Along the way, Dr. Langer and his lab, including about 60 postdoctoral and graduate students at a time, have found a way to navigate some slippery territory: the intersection of academic research and the commercial market.
兰格实验室共有约60名博士后和研究生。一路走来，兰格博士和他的实验室已经知道如何在一些较难把握的领域，比如交叉学科学术研究和商业市场，找到前进的方向。
Over the last 30 years, many universities — including M.I.T. — have set up licensing offices that oversee the transfer of scientific discoveries to companies. These offices have become a major pathway for universities seeking to put their research to practical use, not to mention add to their revenue streams.
在过去30年中，包括麻省理工在内的许多高校都设立了授权办公室，监督向企业转让科学成果的过程。这些办公室已经成为高等院校将研究转化为实际应用的主要渠道，当然也增加了它们的收入来源。
In the sciences in particular, technology transfer has become a key way to bring drugs and other treatments to market. “The model of biomedical innovation relies on research coming out of universities, often funded by public money,” says Josephine Johnston, director of research at the Hastings Center, a bioethics research organization based in Garrison, N.Y.
特别是在科学领域中，技术转让已经成为让药物和其他治疗手段走向市场的关键渠道。设在纽约州加里森的生物伦理学研究组织海斯汀中心(the Hastings Center)研究事务主任约瑟芬·约翰斯顿(Josephine Johnston)指出：“生物医药的创新模式依赖于大学的研究成果，而且经常得到公共资金的支持。”
Just a few of the products that have emerged from the Langer Lab are a small wafer that delivers a dose of chemotherapy used to treat brain cancer; sugar-sequencing tools that can be used to create new drugs like safer and more effective blood thinners; and a miniaturized chip (a form of nanotechnology) that can test for diseases.
在源于兰格实验室的产品中，有针对脑癌的化疗晶片；有多糖排序工具，它可以用来研制新药，比如更安全并更有效的抗凝血剂；还有可以检测疾病的微型芯片（采用纳米技术）。
The chemotherapy wafer, called the Gliadel, is licensed by Eisai Inc. The company behind the sugar-sequencing tools, Momenta Pharmaceuticals, raised $28.4 million in an initial public offering in 2004. The miniaturized chip is made by T2Biosystems,  which completed a $23 million round of financing in the summer of 2011.
这种化疗晶片叫做卡莫司汀植入膜剂(Gliadel)，是药品制造商卫材公司(Eisai Inc)的专利产品。使用多糖排序工具的是仿真达制药(Momenta Pharmaceuticals)，这家生物医药公司在2004年首发上市，筹集资金2840万美元。微型芯片由诊断设备生产商T2生物系统公司(T2Biosystems)制造，该公司去年夏天完成了一轮2300万美元的融资。
“It’s inconvenient to have to send things to a lab,” so the company is trying to develop more sophisticated methods, says Dr. Ralph Weissleder, a co-founder, with Dr. Langer and others, of T2Biosystems and a professor at Harvard Medical School.
哈佛医学院(Harvard Medical School)教授拉尔夫·韦斯莱德(Ralph Weissleder)博士和兰格等人共同建立了T2生物系统公司，他说：“什么东西都要拿到实验室去很麻烦，”所以T2生物系统公司正在尝试一些更为完善的途径。
FOR Dr. Langer, starting a company is not the same as it was, say, for Mark Zuckerberg with Facebook. “Bob is not consumed with any one company,” says H. Kent Bowen, an emeritus professor of business administration at Harvard Business School who wrote a case study on the Langer Lab. “His mission is to create the idea.”
对兰格博士来说，创立公司和马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)创立Facebook不可同日而语。哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)商业管理学名誉教授肯特·鲍恩(Kent Bowen)认为：“罗伯特不会受到任何公司的困扰，他的职责是制造点子。”
Dr. Bowen observes that there are many other academic laboratories, including highly productive ones, but that the Langer Lab’s combination of people, spun-out companies and publications sets it apart. He says Dr. Langer “walks into the great unknown and then makes these discoveries.”
鲍恩博士指出，学术实验室有很多，其中不乏一些成效卓著者，而让兰格实验室脱颖而出的是它的人员构成，是它层出不穷的公司和著述。他说兰格博士“走进的是茫茫的未知世界，带出来的是这些发现。”
Dr. Langer is well known for his mentoring abilities. He is “notorious for replying to e-mail in two minutes, whether it’s a lowly graduate school student or the president of the United States,” says Paulina Hill, who worked in his lab from 2009 to 2011 and is now a senior associate at Polaris Venture Partners. (According to Dr. Langer, he has corresponded directly with President Obama about stem cell research and federal funds for the sciences.)
兰格博士的指导能力众所周知。用葆莉娜·希尔(Paulina Hill)的话说，他“是出了名的在收到电子邮件后两分钟内回信的人，无论对方是个不起眼的研究生还是美国总统，这让兰格名声远播”。2009至2011年期间希尔曾在兰格实验室工作，现在是北极星投资公司的高级合伙人。（据兰格博士讲，他曾就干细胞研究和联邦科学基金问题和总统奥巴马直接通信。）
Dr. Langer says he looks at his students “as an extended family,” adding that “I really want them to do well.”
兰格博士说，他觉得自己的学生是“一个大家庭，我真心希望他们有所成就。”
And they have, whether in business or in academia, or a combination of the two. One former student, Ram Sasisekharan, helped found Momenta and now runs his own lab at M.I.T. Ganesh Venkataraman Kaundinya is Momenta’s chief scientific officer and senior vice president for research.
他的弟子们也都确有建树，有些是在商业领域，有些是在学术方面，有些则二者皆有。拉姆·萨席斯卡兰(Ram Sasisekharan)曾师从兰格，他是仿真达制药的奠基人之一，现在在麻省理工管理着自己的实验室。甘内什·文卡塔拉曼·考恩迪尼亚(Ganesh Venkataraman Kaundinya)在该公司任首席科学官兼研究部高级副总裁。
Hongming Chen is vice president of research at Kala Pharmaceuticals. Howard Bernstein is chief scientific officer at Seventh Sense Biosystems, a blood-testing company. Still others have taken jobs in the law or in government.
陈洪明（Hongming Chen，音译）在眼科治疗产品制造企业卡拉制药(Kala Pharmaceuticals)担任副总裁。霍华德·伯恩斯坦(Howard Bernstein)是血液检验设备生产商第七感生物医药有限公司(Seventh Sense Biosystems)的首席科学官。还有一些人在法律领域或政府机关工作。
Dr. Langer says he spends about eight hours a week working on companies that come out of his lab. Of the 25 that he helped start, he serves on the boards of 12 and is an informal adviser to 4. All of his entrepreneurial activity, which includes some equity stakes, has made him a millionaire. But he says he is mainly motivated by a desire to improve people’s health.
兰格博士说，每周他都会到那些出自兰格实验室的公司中工作，总计约8个小时。在他帮助建立的25家公司中，有12家公司委任他为董事，有四家聘请他为非正式顾问。这些实业活动，外加一些期权让他成了百万富翁。但兰格说，他的动力主要还是来自改善人们健康状况的渴望。
Operating from the sixth floor of the David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research on the M.I.T. campus in Cambridge, Mass., Dr. Langer’s lab has a research budget of more than $10 million for 2012, coming mostly from federal sources.
兰格实验室设在麻省理工（马萨诸塞州坎布里奇市）大卫·科赫综合癌症研究所(David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research)的六楼，2012年的研究预算超过1000万美元，其中大多来自联邦经费。
The research in labs like Dr. Langer’s is eyed closely by pharmaceutical companies. While drug companies employ huge research and development teams, they may not be as freewheeling and nimble, Dr. Langer says. The basis for many long-range discoveries has “come out of academia, including gene therapy, gene sequencing and tissue engineering,” he says.
对兰格实验室这样的机构来说，其研究工作备受医药公司关注。兰格说，虽然药企拥有庞大的研发队伍，但它们可能无法做到随心所欲、行动敏捷。许多影响深远的成果都源于“学术研究，包括基因治疗、基因排序和组织工程。”
He has served as a consultant to pharmaceutical companies. Their large size, he says, can end up being an impediment.
作为多家医药公司的顾问，兰格认为它们的庞大规模最终可能成为一个障碍。
“Very often when you are going for real innovation,” he says, “you have to go against prevailing wisdom, and it’s hard to go against prevailing wisdom when there are people who have been there for a long time and you have some vice president who says, ‘No, that doesn’t make sense.’ ”
他说：“要真正进行创新，你往往得和主流思维逆向而行，如果你身边有一些资历很深的同事，再加上几位副总裁说‘不，这讲不通’，那你就很难逆主流思维而动。”
Pharmaceutical companies are eager to tap into the talent at leading research universities. In 2008, for example, Washington University in St. Louis announced a $25 million pact with Pfizer to collaborate more closely on biomedical research.
医药企业迫切希望顶尖高校的人才为自己效力。举例来说，设在圣路易斯的华盛顿大学(Washington University)2008年曾宣布，该校和辉瑞(Pfizer)签署了在生物医学研究领域加强合作的协议，合同总额为2500万美元。
But in some situations, the close — critics might say cozy — ties between business and academia have the potential to create conflicts of interest.
但在某些情况下，实业界和学术界的紧密联系，或者像批评人士所说的那样勾搭在一起，有可能引发利益冲突。
There was a controversy earlier this year when it was revealed that the president of the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center owned stock in Aveo Oncology, which had announced earlier that the university would be leading clinical trials of one of its cancer drugs.  Last month, the University of Texas announced that he would be allowed to keep his ties with three pharmaceutical companies, including Aveo Oncology; his holdings will be placed in a blind trust.
今年早些时候人们发现德克萨斯大学MD安德森癌症中心(University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center)主任持有医药公司Aveo Oncology股份，而后者已经宣布德州大学将负责该公司一种抗癌药物的临床试验，这件事引发了一场争论。上个月，德州大学表示允许该中心主任保持和三家医药公司的联系，其中包括Aveo Oncology，对他所持的股票则做保密委托处理。
“One question is how much is the commercial interest driving the research,” Ms. Johnston says. “I think that universities and the public policy makers are a little unsure where they think the balance should be. Does this opportunity skew the research agenda in terms of commercial application instead of the public interest?” She was speaking generally, and not commenting on any particular institution.
海思汀中心研究事务主任约翰斯顿指出：“问题在于商业利益对学术研究有多大的影响力。我认为高校和公共政策决策者在应当怎样求得平衡方面稍稍有些心虚。改变研究进程的会不会是商业应用的需要而不是公众利益呢？”她只是泛指，并没有针对任何具体事件。
Dr. Langer says that there is no pressure at his lab for students to turn their research into a business. In fact, he says, about half of his students stay in academia. “I feel like one of our successes is that we trained so many great people who are now teaching at universities,” he says, adding that strict ethics rules are in place to prevent conflicts.
兰格说在他的实验室，学生们在将研究转化为实业方面没有任何压力。实际上，约一半学生都留在了学术领域。他说：“我觉得我们的成就之一就是培训出了这么多了不起的人，而他们现在又都在大学教书。”兰格还指出，严格的伦理规定可以防止出现利益冲突。
If they remain in academia, scientists at M.I.T. can still take equity stakes in the companies that their discoveries helped form. But they are barred from owning shares in any company that provides a research grant to their lab. They also cannot be executives of a company, although they can serve as paid advisers.
即使一直从事学术工作，如果某家公司是在自己的研究成果帮助之下才成立的，麻省理工的科学家们就可以持有这家公司的股份。但如果某家公司向他们的实验室提供了研究资金，他们就不能在这家公司持股。他们也不能在公司担任管理职位，但可以成为受薪顾问。
One issue at the crux of technology transfer is: How do universities protect the public good?
技术转让的一个核心问题在于：高校如何保障公众的利益？
“M.I.T. always reserves rights for all nonprofit institutions, noncommercial research and education,” says Lita Nelsen, director of M.I.T.’s Technology Licensing Office, who has helped the Langer Lab file for hundreds of patents, close to 80 percent of which have been approved.
麻省理工技术授权办公室主任丽塔·内尔森(Lita Nelsen)说：“麻省理工总是为所有非盈利机构、非商业性研究和教育保留权力。”她帮助兰格实验室提交了数百项专利申请，其中近80%已获得批准。
As an example, a controlled-release polio vaccine developed in the Langer Lab was financed by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for use in the developing world. The foundation has also arranged to use, through Seventh Sense Biosystems, a rapid way to draw blood with a microneedle patch that could be used outside the confines of a medical center. (The approach is still in human trials.) The Langer Lab has also been working with the United States Army on a regenerative-tissue project that would help wounded soldiers from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
举例来说，借助比尔与梅琳达·盖茨基金会(Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation)提供的资金，兰格实验室开发出了用于发展中地区的小儿麻痹症控释疫苗。该基金会还通过第七感生物医药开发出可在医疗机构以外使用的微针贴片，这种贴片可迅速进行采血（这种方法仍在进行人体试验）。兰格实验室还一直在和美国军方共同进行再生组织研究，目的是帮助在伊拉克和阿富汗战争中受伤的士兵。
When a discovery is licensed at M.I.T., the university splits the profit three ways — among the department where the discovery was made, the university and the inventors.
将一项研究成果对外授权后，麻省理工会把所得利润分为三部分，分别给予取得这项成果的科系、校方和发明人。
“The founding principle in 1861, when M.I.T. was created, was to provide and support the industrialization of America. I always say we were founded on the principle of tech transfer,” says Susan Hockfield, who served as M.I.T.’s president from December 2004 until June of this year.
2004年12月-2012年6月期间任麻省理工校长的苏珊·霍克菲尔德(Susan Hockfield)表示：“1861年创建麻省理工时所秉承的理念就是推动和支持美国的工业化。我一直在说，我们的学校建立在技术转化的原则之上。”
David H. Koch, executive vice president of Koch Industries, the conglomerate based in Wichita, Kan., wrote in an e-mail that “innovation and education have long fueled the world’s most powerful economies, so I can’t think of a better or more natural synergy than the one between academia and industry.” Mr. Koch endowed Dr. Langer’s professorship at M.I.T. and is a graduate of the university.
大卫·科赫(David H. Koch)在堪萨斯州威奇托的联合企业科氏工业集团(Koch Industries)任执行副总裁，他在电子邮件中写道：“创新和教育一直以来都是全球最强大的几个经济体的发展动力，所以我认为学术界和实业界的协同效应是最好的，也是最自然的。”科赫为兰格博士在麻省理工的教授席位提供资金，他本人也毕业于这所学校。
YES, many of the Langer Lab’s discoveries are helping to fight disease. But you can’t say that about a hair-thickening product that is made by a company called Living Proof. The product is sold at stores like Nordstrom and Sephora; Dr. Langer serves on the company’s board and holds a small equity stake.
的确，兰格实验室的许多研究成功都有助于抵御疾病。但其中并不包括增发剂。生产这种产品的是一家叫Living Proof的公司，而这种产品则在诺德斯特龙百化公司(Nordstrom)和丝芙兰(Sephora)这样的店铺中销售。兰格博士是Living Proof的董事，持有一小部分股权。
How did he end up in the hair care business? That discovery actually came from a way to create new materials, the original intent of which was to treat prostate and ovarian cancer. Various chemical compounds, however, could be fished out from the discovery for many different purposes, including a hair thickening product.
他怎么会进入护发用品行业？这项成果实际上来自于一种创造新材料的方法，而这种方法本打算用于治疗前列腺癌和卵巢癌。而借这项成果可以制造出多种化学复合物，这些复合物可以达到各种各样的目的，其中就包括增发。
Of course, not everything that comes out of the lab is a sure bet. A drug may not make it past clinical trials, or an alternative treatment may prove more effective.
当然，并非所有出自兰格实验室的东西都必有所用。有些药品可能无法通过临床试验，或者没有别的治疗手段有效。