Aflatoxins — poisons produced by fungi that grow on moldy peanuts and corn — may be worsening Africa’s AIDS epidemic by helping suppress the immune systems of newly infected people, a new study has found.
新研究发现，生长在发霉花生及玉米上的菌类所产生的黄曲霉毒素可能正在加剧非洲的艾滋病疫情，因为这种毒素会抑制新感染者的免疫系统。
The study, by researchers at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and published recently in the World Mycotoxin Journal, measured blood levels of aflatoxins and H.I.V. in 314 Ghanaians who had never taken antiviral drugs.
该研究由阿拉巴马州立大学伯明翰分校(University of Alabama at Birmingham)的研究人员完成，最近发表在《世界真菌毒素期刊》(World Mycotoxin Journal)上，检测了从未使用抗病毒药物的314名加纳人血液中的黄曲霉毒素及HIV水平。
The more aflatoxins they had, the more likely they were to have high blood levels of H.I.V. — even those with higher levels of CD4 blood cells, meaning they had not been infected long and were not yet eligible for triple-therapy cocktails under the latest World Health Organization guidelines.
他们血液中的黄曲霉毒素越多，HIV水平高的几率也就越大，即便那些CD4血细胞水平较高的人也是如此。CD4血细胞水平高意味着患者刚刚感染不久，根据最近的世卫组织指导原则尚不能接受三联鸡尾酒疗法。
The toxins, produced by aspergillus fungi that grow on damp grains, nuts and beans, are so common as to be almost unavoidable in humid climates, but so dangerous that federal law limits concentrations in food to 20 parts per billion. American peanut-butter makers are always on the watch for them. Ground peanuts are a staple food of West Africa.
这种毒素极其常见，来源于生长在受潮谷物、坚果及豆类上的曲霉真菌，在潮湿气候下几乎无法避免。与此同时，这种毒素极其危险，联邦法律规定的食品含量上限是十亿分之二十。美国花生酱生产者总是很警惕这种毒素。花生在西非是一种主要食物。
In high doses, aflatoxins can be deadly. A 2004 outbreak in Kenya killed 125 people; samples of moldy corn had up to 8,000 parts per billion. Regular exposure to low doses can cause liver cancer.
剂量高的时候，黄曲霉毒素可以致命。2004年，肯尼亚爆发了食物中毒事件，125人死亡。发霉玉米样品中的黄曲霉毒素含量高达十亿分之八千。长期的低剂量摄入也会导致肝癌。
The authors suggested that aflatoxins either contribute proteins that help H.I.V. reproduce or somehow lessen the numbers of the white blood cells that the virus targets, making its attack on the immune system more potent.
研究作者认为，黄曲霉毒素要么提供了帮助HIV复制的蛋白质，要么以某种方式减少了遭受病毒攻击的白细胞数量，使得病毒对免疫系统的攻击更加有力。