This hole in the ground is the length of three city blocks. It is a carpet of sand, weeds and prairie grass sloping down to the river, interrupted only by a low ridge of broken bedrock. Around it, a black chain-link fence catches the plastic cups, paper and other debris that roll along like tumbleweeds.
地面上这个大坑有三个街区长。这是一片覆盖着砂砾、野草丛生的斜坡，一直延伸到河边，中间只被一些微微隆起的破裂岩石阻断了一下。周围是一道黑色链条栅栏，上面挂着风滚草一般翻滚而来的塑料杯、纸和其他碎片。
But this 6.4-acre parcel is not sitting in the middle of a decaying rust-belt city. It is nestled in the middle of Manhattan, between 38th and 41st Streets on First Avenue, overlooking the East River, amid a residential real estate boom.
但是这块6.4英亩（约合2.6公顷）的空地可并非坐落在什么破烂废弃的城市里。在正值住宅房地产市场繁荣的当下，它深处曼哈顿之中，就在第一大道的38街和41街之间，可以看到东河。
Yet it has sat fallow for six years, long enough for young trees to rise at the edges of the property.
然而它已经空置了六年，久到地块周边都长起了小树。
How one of the most valuable undeveloped pieces of earth has sat empty for years — even after New York City approved a $4 billion project there in 2008 — is a mysterious and confusing tale of ambition, infighting, clashing personalities and bad timing. At its heart is Sheldon H. Solow, an irascible but talented billionaire developer who is an intermittent presence in his office on 57th Street after a career that reaches back more than a half century.
为什么一块最具价值的未开发地块会被闲置数年——尽管纽约市政府在2008年曾批准过一个40亿美元的相关项目——这已经成了一个神秘而令人困惑的故事，里面交织着野心、内斗、个性冲突和糟糕的时机选择。故事的中心人物是谢尔顿·H·索娄(Sheldon H. Solow)，一位性情暴躁但才能卓越的富有开发商，其职业生涯始于半个多世纪前，现在，他只是偶尔出现在位于第57街的办公室里。
“This lot seems to be a prime candidate for development in the current market,” said Ross Moskowitz, a real estate partner at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, who is not involved with the Solow site. “With interest rates still very attractive and the capital markets looking for product, there appears to be unlimited appetite and demand for residential housing in New York.”
“这个地块对当前的市场来说是上等的开发选择，”斯特鲁克律师事务所(Stroock & Stroock & Lavan)房地产合伙人罗斯·莫斯科维茨(Ross Moskowitz)说，他本人没有参与索娄地块相关事宜。“现在利率依然诱人，资本市场在物色产品，而纽约对住房的胃口和需求现在看起来是无穷无尽的。”
Mr. Solow is not talking. Nor is his son Stefan, 38, who appears at the office, but not often at the same time as his father.
索娄保持沉默。他的儿子、38岁的斯特凡(Stefan)也一样，他会来办公室，但是一般不会跟父亲同时出现。
“I can’t tell you anything,” said a family adviser, Thomas D. Thacher III.
“我什么都不能说，”家族顾问托马斯·D·撒切尔三世(Thomas D. Thacher III)说。
Mr. Solow, 85, does not have much time to make his move. He must build the foundation for the office building or one of several apartment towers by November, or risk losing his permits and public approvals.
现年85岁的索娄没有多少运作的时间了。他必须在12月前为写字楼或多幢公寓楼中的一座建起地基，否则有可能会失去许可证和公众认可。
Mr. Solow, a tall, well-dressed man who has been plagued by rumors about his health for three years, is an imposing figure with an impregnable confidence in his own vision. He has amassed quite an art collection, which includes works by Picasso, Matisse, Botticelli, Morris Louis, Balthus and Rothko.
过去三年一直风传健康状况欠佳的索娄身材高大、衣着讲究，是个气度不凡的人物，对自己的设想有着坚不可摧的信心。他有一个相当庞大的艺术品收藏，其中包括毕加索(Picasso)、马蒂斯(Matisse)、波提切利(Botticelli)、莫里斯·路易(Morris Louis)、巴尔蒂斯(Balthus)和罗斯科(Rothko)的作品。
He solidified his reputation in the 1970s when he built the swooping, 50-story office tower at 9 West 57th Street, which remains one of Manhattan’s most sought-after addresses because of its unobstructed views of Central Park. By Mr. Solow’s past account, he collaborated with the architect Gordon Bunshaft on the design.
20世纪70年代，他在西57街9号建起宏伟的50层写字楼，从而巩固了他的声誉。这座可以将中央公园美景尽收眼底的写字楼至今仍是曼哈顿最受欢迎的楼盘。索娄曾说大楼是他和建筑师戈登·邦夏(Gordon Bunshaft)合作设计的。
The developer has a fierce determination to do things his way, regardless of others’ advice or economic pressures. He refused to rent out the underground retail space at 9 West 57th for 30 years, waiting for the right tenant. Finally, Mr. Solow installed his own restaurant, Brasserie 8 ½, and lined the walls with some of his art.
这位开发商极度固执，无视其他人的建议或经济压力，一定会按自己的方式行事。他把西57街9号的地下店铺空间空置了30年，一直拒绝出租，只为招徕一个可心的租客。最后索娄自己在里面开了一间8 ½餐馆(Brasserie 8 ½)，把自己收藏的部分艺术品挂在墙上。
Mr. Solow has also developed a reputation as one of the country’s most litigious individuals, responsible for at least 200 lawsuits. He has sued friends, enemies, tenants and banks, not often with success.
索娄还赢得了美国最爱打官司的人之一的声望，他至少打了200场官司，起诉过朋友、敌人、租客和银行，但却败多胜少。
In 2000, Mr. Solow and the Fisher real estate family won a hotly contested auction for 9.2 acres of land along First Avenue. The hole in the ground is the largest of three noncontiguous parcels between 35th and 41st Streets that made up the property, which he bought from Consolidated Edison for $630 million.
2000年，索娄和费希尔(Fisher)房地产家族在一场竞争激烈的拍卖中，得到了第一大道旁总面积9.2英亩（约合3.7公顷）的土地。这片地皮是由35街和41街之间三块不相连的地块组成的，地上的这块大坑是其中最大的一块。这片地皮是以6.3亿美元的价格从联合爱迪生公司(Consolidated Edison)购得的。
Mr. Solow spent nearly $100 million demolishing the Waterside power plant there and cleansing the land of toxic materials. In 2008, he had won city approvals for a $4 billion project designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill that included seven towers, five acres of public gardens and walkways, a public school and affordable housing. He also shed his partner, the Fisher family, after a bitter falling out.
索娄花了将近1亿美元拆除这块地皮上的水畔(Waterside)电厂，并清除了土壤里的有毒物质。2008年，他提出的一项总额40亿美元的项目得到了市政府的批准。该项目由SOM建筑设计事务所(Skidmore, Owings & Merrill)设计，包含七栋大厦、五英亩公共花园和人行道、一所公共学校和平价住房。经过一场不愉快的纷争，他与合作伙伴费希尔家族分道扬镳。
The property between 38th and 41st Streets, on the east side of First Avenue, was to include a semicircular public pavilion designed by the architect Richard Meier.
38街和41街之间的地产位于第一大道东侧，其中将包括一座由建筑师理查德·迈耶(Richard Meier)设计的半环形的公共凉亭。
But the city was in the grips of a severe recession, so little happened.
然而这座城市陷入了严峻的衰退中，因此项目并没有什么进展。
Since 2009, Mr. Solow’s executive suite has had a revolving door as he fired one general counsel and chief operating officer after another, including Steven Cherniak, a 27-year veteran of the company. His long-running legal battle with Citigroup over a loan for the property ended with an $85.7 million judgment against him.
自2009年以来，他炒掉了一名又一名法务主管和首席运营官，包括为公司服务长达27年的老将斯蒂文·切尼亚克(Steven Cherniak)。他与花旗集团(Citigroup)之间，因这项地产的一宗贷款而开展的旷日持久的法律大战，最终以他赔偿8570万美元而收场。
During the recession he also stopped work on Two Sutton Place North, a 37-story apartment building on East 61st Street, near York Avenue, and stubbornly refused to lease space in his signature building, 9 West 57th, which had a large block of vacant space after the Bank of America moved out.
在经济衰退期间，他还停止了萨顿广场北2号的建设，这栋37层的公寓楼位于东61街上，临近约克大道(York Avenue)。此外，他还顽固地拒绝出租名下标志性建筑，西57街9号内的空间，那里在美国银行(Bank of America)搬出后留出了一大块空位。
It appeared to many in the real estate industry that Mr. Solow was having cash-flow problems.
在许多房地产业者看来，索娄似乎遇到了现金流问题。
Stefan Solow stepped in during his father’s occasional absences from work, and quietly tried to settle a number of lawsuits, lease the vacant space in the tower at 9 West 57th and sell some land. Executives who have dealt with both men say the father and son are not often on the same page.
在父亲偶尔脱离工作之时，史蒂芬·索娄(Stefan Solow)会介入公司的管理，悄悄地试图对若干起诉讼进行和解，出租位于西57街9号的空置空间。与父子二人都打过交道的企业高管透露，他们两人时常意见不一。
More recently, the Solows have offered conflicting signals as to their intentions. Their new broker, Scott Panzer of Jones Lang LaSalle, has signed new tenants — Tiger Global Management and Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb, at the top of 9 West 57th for some of the highest rents in the city, although real estate executives say there is still more than 600,000 square feet of space available.
在那以后，索娄父子还对各自的意图做过相互冲突的表态。他们的新中介，仲量联行(Jones Lang LaSalle)的斯科特·庞彻(Scott Panzer)已经为西57街9号的顶层签下了新的租客，老虎全球基金(Tiger Global Management)、鲁恩-卡尼夫-高法伯基金(Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb)，租金堪称纽约最高。而房地产业的高管表示，楼里仍有超过60万平方英尺（约合5.6万平方米）的空置空间。
Work has also resumed on Two Sutton Place North.
萨顿广场北2号的工程也重新开始了。
According to executives who know Mr. Solow, he reconvened his development team about three months ago, eager to begin work on the hole in the ground, to demonstrate that he was serious and to capitalize on a surging market. But the group has not met again.
与索娄相识的高管表示，他大概在三个月前召集开发团队开会，迫切地想对地上的大坑开始施工，从而显示他很认真，打算抓住行情高涨的时机。但这个团队并没有再次碰头。
“He bought the land cheap,” said Edward Rubin, an architect and a former member of Community Board 6. “The rental market is really hot. Why it’s still a hole in the ground, I don’t know.”
“他买这块地买得很便宜，”第六社区委员会(Community Board 6)前成员、建筑师爱德华·鲁宾(Edward Rubin)说。“租赁市场十分火爆。地上为什么还有个坑，我真不明白。”