BEIRUT, Lebanon — The admission from Hezbollah’s deputy chief was startling. The group, he said over the weekend, is “battling espionage within its ranks” and has uncovered “some major infiltrations.”
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——黎巴嫩真主党(Hezbollah)副书记承认的事让人很吃惊。他周末表示，这个组织正在“其内部打击情报活动”，而且发现了“一些重大的渗透”。
To analysts and even some Hezbollah loyalists, the remarks were immediately taken as confirmation of long-swirling reports that a senior operative had been caught spying for Israel, disrupting a series of assassination plots abroad.
分析人士，甚至真主党的一些忠实成员，立即认为，这证实了长期以来流传的一种说法，即真主党内部一名高级人员被发现为以色列提供情报，破坏了在国外策划的一系列暗杀行动。
The accounts in the Lebanese and Arab news media, relying on unnamed sources, identify the mole as Mohammad Shawraba, the man charged with exacting revenge for Israel’s assassination of a top operative, Imad Mughniyeh, in 2008. They say Mr. Shawraba fed information to Israel that foiled five planned retaliation attempts.
黎巴嫩和阿拉伯新闻媒体援引匿名人士提供的消息，指出这名内线是穆罕默德·沙乌拉巴(Mohammad Shawraba)。在以色列于2008年刺杀真主党高层伊迈德·穆格尼耶(Imad Mughniyeh)之后，沙乌拉巴受命发动报复。但媒体报道称，沙乌拉巴向以色列输送情报，致使五起计划开展的报复行动受挫。
The Hezbollah official, Naim Qassem, who is often called upon to handle difficult issues, made no mention of the specific allegations. In his remarks on Al-Nour, a Hezbollah-affiliated radio station, he added that Hezbollah, Lebanon’s most powerful militant organization and political party, was able to contain any damage from espionage.
这名真主党高官纳伊姆·卡西姆(Naim Qassem)经常受到委任，去解决棘手问题，不过他并没有谈及具体的指控。卡西姆在真主党附属机构光明电台(Al-Nour)发言时还表示，真主党作为黎巴嫩实力最强的武装组织和政治团体，有能力遏制间谍活动造成的任何破坏。
This is not the first time that Hezbollah has admitted to spies within its ranks. But this breach, if confirmed, comes at a time when the party has grown from a tight, exclusive cell focused on fighting Israel to a much larger operation that has significantly expanded its mission, sending thousands of its Shiite fighters to Syria to prevent the overthrow of its ally, President Bashar al-Assad, by Sunni insurgents.
这并不是真主党第一次承认其内部存在间谍。如果得到证实，这起渗透事件的时机十分关键。黎巴嫩真主党已经从一个组织森严、专注于对抗以色列的小团体，扩张为规模远超从前的组织，派出了旗下数以千计的什叶派武装分子前往叙利亚，以防它的盟友叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)被逊尼派叛军推翻。
That, in turn, has angered Lebanese Sunnis, who call Hezbollah’s involvement in Syria an abuse of the national consensus that supports the group’s keeping an independent militia only for fighting Israel, known here as resistance.
这反过来又激怒了黎巴嫩的逊尼派。他们认为真主党介入叙利亚局势是破坏了全国民众的共识：支持真主党保留独立的武装力量，但目的只能是与以色列作战，他们在这里被称为“抵抗运动成员”。
Another complication of the Syria operation, with its heavy demands on logistics and manpower, is that it could have disrupted top officials’ focus on deterring Israeli espionage, said Randa Slim, a Lebanese analyst of Hezbollah affiliated with the Middle East Institute in Washington. The supposed breach, she added, is a blow that “goes right straight to their resistance brand.”
干预叙利亚的行动还产生了另一个后果。研究真主党的黎巴嫩分析师兰达·斯利姆(Randa Slim)谈到，由于需要大量的后勤和人力支持，行动可能干扰了高层官员遏制以色列情报活动的注意力。供职于华盛顿中东研究所(Middle East Institute)的斯利姆还说，据信出现的情报渗透，“对于它的‘抵抗运动’招牌造成了直接的”打击。
Mr. Qassem’s reference to infiltration was “the first indirect confirmation, the first attempt by the party at controlling the narrative,” Ms. Slim said. “The spin is that we are like any other organization, we have our problems, and as Hezbollah grows, as it becomes influential, there will be more and more attempts at infiltration, but things are under control.”
卡西姆对情报渗透的表态是“第一次间接的证实，也是真主党控制相关舆论的第一次尝试”，斯利姆说。“他的说辞是，我们就像其他任何组织一样，也有自己的问题，而且随着真主党的扩张，它有了影响力，渗透的尝试也会越来越多，但事态是在控制之中的。”
A Hezbollah spokesman said Sunday night that the party would have no comment on the spying allegations. Its leader, Hassan Nasrallah, is set to deliver one of his frequent speeches on Friday.
周日晚间，真主党一位发言人表示，该党对于间谍指控不会发表评论。时常公开讲话的真主党总书记哈桑·纳斯鲁拉(Hassan Nasrallah)按计划将于周五发表讲话。
Mr. Qassem said that while Hezbollah aimed for “purity,” it was made up of human beings who can make mistakes. Analysts said the timing of his remarks, and his frequent role in reassuring constituents, appeared to lend some credence to the reports. Several Hezbollah loyalists spoke of the breach as an established fact after hearing the remarks.
卡西姆说，尽管真主党的目标是“纯净”，但其成员都是可能会犯错误的凡人。分析人士表示，他发表评论的时间点，以及他经常发表言论安抚追随者的角色，似乎为媒体的报道增添了一些可信度。多位真主党忠实成员在听到他的发言后认为，情报渗透是确凿的事实。
Israeli officials, who rarely speak publicly on espionage matters, did not respond to a request for comment. Yaakov Amidror, a former national security adviser, also refused to comment beyond saying that he was familiar with Mr. Shawraba and joking that his family should not expect him to come home soon.
以色列官员极少就谍报问题公开发表言论，此次也没有回应置评请求。以色列前国家安全顾问雅科夫·亚米德洛尔(Yaakov Amidror)也拒绝发表评论，只是说他与沙乌拉巴很熟，还开玩笑称沙乌拉巴的家人不要指望他能很快回家。
But the emergence of reports about the supposed mole, and Mr. Qassem’s seeming confirmation, suggest that Hezbollah has been working assiduously to launch attacks in response to Mr. Mughniyeh’s death — and that the absence of a major strike on Israel since then is not for lack of trying, as Ms. Slim put it, “but because the guy in charge of these plots is a spy.”
然而关于那个所谓线人的报道的出现，以及卡西姆似乎予以证实的表态，显示出真主党一直在积极地发动袭击，对穆格尼耶之死做出回应。而从那以来以色列没有受到严重袭击，并不是因为没有尝试，用斯利姆的话说，“而是因为负责实施袭击的家伙是个间谍”。
They could also serve as a warning to Israel that Hezbollah has purged its ranks and is ready to resume efforts to avenge Mr. Mughniyeh’s death. These are likely to be aimed at high-level targets that Hezbollah would consider proportional in importance to Mr. Mughniyeh, Ms. Slim said, and if successful could lead to a new war between Hezbollah and Israel, ending the wary cease-fire that has persisted since 2006.
这些报道也可以警告以色列，真主党进行了内部清洗，已经做好准备对穆格尼耶的死重新开展报复。这些报复行动可能会针对那些在真主党眼中与穆格尼耶重要性相当的高级别目标，斯利姆说，如果成功，可能会在真主党与以色列之间引发一场新的战争，终结2006年以来一直持续但并不稳固的停火。
A Hezbollah fighter and party member in the Bekaa Valley town of Baalbek said the infiltration “won’t affect the whole party” but would have a strong effect on the areas in which Mr. Shawraba worked. Those were described in various accounts as heading Hezbollah’s activities outside Lebanon and running the security detail for Mr. Nasrallah.
在位于贝卡谷地的小镇巴勒贝克(Baalbek)，一名真主党作战人员和党员称，渗透“并不会影响全党”，但是会对沙乌拉巴负责过的领域产生较强的影响。综合各家媒体的报道，沙乌拉巴的职责包括领导真主党在黎巴嫩之外的活动，并负责纳斯鲁拉的警卫队。
“The party now has to change everything about his post,” the fighter said. “It’s very normal to catch collaborators.”
“党内必须对与他的职务相关的所有事情做出调整，”这名作战人员说。“抓到通敌者是很正常的。”
Talal al-Atrissi, a Lebanese analyst close to Hezbollah, called the breach “a loss but not a substantial loss” for the party. “The party works in tiny circles, not big circles,” he said. “Even party members don’t know each other.”
与真主党关系密切的黎巴嫩分析师塔拉勒·阿特里希(Talal al-Atrissi)称，情报渗透对真主党是“一个损失，但不是重大损失”。“这个党是靠小圈子运作的，而不是大圈子，”他说。“即使是党员，相互之间也不认识。”
Still, Lebanese and Arab news reports have given details of what they say are numerous consequences of the infiltration, as well as how Mr. Shawraba, said to be 42 and from the southern Lebanon town of Nabatiya, was caught.
然而黎巴嫩和阿拉伯的新闻报道，详细列举了据称是渗透事件后果的诸多情况，也讲述了沙乌拉巴是怎样被抓到的。据报道沙乌拉巴现年42岁，来自黎巴嫩南部城市纳巴泰(Nabatiya)。
Mr. Shawraba was captured a month ago after a seven-month investigation and is now being tried, along with four accomplices, in a Hezbollah court, according to Lebanon’s Daily Star newspaper. Some reports implicated him in the death of Mr. Mughniyeh himself, and others said he leaked information to Israel that led to the assassination of Hassan al-Laqees, another senior commander who was gunned down in Beirut in 2013.
黎巴嫩《每日星报》(Daily Star)报道，沙乌拉巴是在经过七个月的调查后，于一个月前被抓获的，现在正与四名同谋在真主党的一个法庭上受审。一些报道称，沙乌拉巴本人与穆格尼耶的死亡有关，另一些报道则称，他向以色列泄露的情报，导致了高级指挥官哈桑·拉奇斯(Hassan al-Laqees)遇袭身亡。2013年，拉奇斯在贝鲁特街头被枪杀。