Observing two cultural celebrations at the same time can lead to controversy, the Sacramento Kings learned this week.
在同一时间庆祝两种文化活动，可能会引发争议，本周萨克拉门托国王(Sacramento Kings)篮球队得到了这方面的教训。
On Monday night, the team hastily removed free “Year of the Monkey” T-shirts for fans from arena seats after complaints that the giveaway was racially insensitive on the first night of Black History Month.
周一晚上，国王队从观众席上匆匆撤下为粉丝准备的免费“猴年”T恤，因为有人投诉称，在黑人历史月(Black History Month)的第一个晚上送出这样的赠品，显得对种族问题极为不敏感。
The Lunar New Year, an Asian festival that will start on Monday in the United States, is the highlight of the Chinese calendar. Each year is based on a symbol of the Chinese horoscope, and this is the Year of the Monkey, the ninth of 12 animals in the cycle. But the team’s effort to celebrate seemed misplaced to some at the start of the annual celebration of African-American heritage.
将于下周一在美国开始的亚洲节日——农历新年，是中国农历中最大的节日。每年都有对应的生肖动物，今年是猴，它是轮流出现的12个生肖中的第九个。但是在一年一度的非洲裔美国人遗产庆祝活动开启之时，萨克拉门托国王篮球队以这样的方式庆祝农历春节，在有些人看来似乎不合时宜。
Images of workers removing the shirts from seats at the Sleep Train arena, where the Kings were playing the Milwaukee Bucks, were published on social media.
工作人员在睡眠火车球馆(Sleep Train)撤掉观众席上的T恤的照片，被发布到了社交媒体上。国王队当时正准备在这里迎战密尔沃基雄鹿队(Milwaukee Bucks)。
On Facebook, the former N.B.A. All-Star Marques Johnson, a television analyst for the Bucks, described an encounter he had on Monday night with DeMarcus Cousins, the Kings’ All-Star center, who objected to the shirts: “I walk into the building, and DeMarcus Cousins calls me over to an animated discussion he’s having with Kings operations people. He ask me, ‘Olskool, what you think about this T-shirt?’ Told him a little insensitive on 1st day of Black History Month. They pulled the shirts. ...”
前NBA全明星球员、现任雄鹿队电视评论员的马克思·约翰逊(Marques Johnson)，在他的Facebook主页上讲述了一件周一晚上发生的事，当时他碰到了国王队中锋、全明星球员德马库斯·考辛斯(DeMarcus Cousins)，后者反对赠送那些T恤：“我正往体育馆里走，考辛斯把我喊了过去，让我加入他和国王队运营人员正在进行的谈话。他问我，‘老伙计，你觉得这种T恤怎么样？’我跟他说，在黑人历史月的第一天送这个，显得不够敏感。他们后来把T恤撤掉了……”
On Monday night, players and coaches were wearing Black History Month shirts during warm-up. Cousins did not play on Monday night because of a sprained ankle.
周一晚上，国王队球员和教练穿着纪念黑人历史月的T恤进行了赛前热身。因脚踝受伤，考辛斯当晚没有上场。
The Kings went on to defeat the Bucks, 111-104.
最终，国王队以111对104的比分击败了雄鹿队。
The N.B.A. has celebrated the Lunar New Year before as part of its community engagement programs. In 2015, it ushered in the Year of the Goat with activities including prizes, performances and special foods to celebrate the diversity of the league’s fan base.
作为其社区参与项目的一部分，NBA过去也曾庆祝农历新年。2015年，NBA曾以多种活动迎接羊年的到来，包括颁奖、表演和提供特别的食物，目的是迎合其成分多样的粉丝群体。
This year, other teams in the league have participated in New Year events. The Charlotte Hornets guard Jeremy Lin and players from other teams were featured in a television “Dining Table” spot as part of celebrations from Feb. 3 to 21.
今年，其他队也参与了新年庆祝活动。夏洛特黄蜂队(Charlotte Hornets)后卫林书豪(Jeremy Lin)和其他球队的几名球员一起主演了一部电视宣传片，片中他们围着餐桌一起吃晚饭，这是NBA联赛从2月3日延续至21日的庆祝活动的一部分。
The Sacramento Bee reported that the “Year of the Monkey” shirts were removed from the seats about 90 minutes before the game started. Other celebrations of the Lunar Year went ahead as planned, including a ribbon dance by the Kings’ dancers.
据《萨克拉门托蜜蜂报》(Sacramento Bee)报道，猴年T恤是在比赛开始前90分钟从观众席上被撤走的。但该队其他农历新年庆祝活动都按计划进行，包括由国王队的拉拉队中场表演彩带舞。
“We all need a lesson in sensitivity,” the Kings’ president, Chris Granger, told The Sacramento Bee. “In an effort to celebrate Chinese New Year, we had some concerns about the T-shirt giveaway, so we pulled them all before the doors opened. Certainly we don’t want to offend anybody, and we acted as soon as we heard the concern.”
“在敏感性这个问题上，我们都需要接受教训，”国王队总裁克里斯·格兰杰(Chris Granger)对《萨克拉门托蜜蜂报》讲道。“在为庆祝农历新年而推出一项活动中，有人对我们要赠送的T恤存有顾虑，所以我们在比赛开始前把它们全都撤下了。我们肯定不想冒犯任何人，一听说人们有这种顾虑，我们马上就有所行动。”