Maya Angelou, whose landmark book of 1969, “I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings” — a lyrical, unsparing account of her childhood in the Jim Crow South — was among the first autobiographies by a 20th-century black woman to reach a wide general readership, died on Wednesday at her home in Winston-Salem, N.C. She was 86.
1969年出版了里程碑式的著作《我知道笼中鸟为何歌唱》(I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings)的玛雅·安杰卢(Maya Angelou)于周三在北卡罗来纳州温斯顿-塞勒姆的家中去世，享年86岁。在这本书中，安杰卢用富有诗意而又严苛不苟的笔触记述了她在黑人歧视深重的南部渡过的童年。她的这部著作是最早接触到广泛读者群的20世纪黑人女性自传之一。
Her death was confirmed by her literary agent, Helen Brann. The cause was not immediately known, but Ms. Brann said Ms. Angelou had been frail for some time and had heart problems.
安杰卢的文学经纪人海伦·布兰(Helen Brann)证实了她的死讯。外界尚无法立即得知死因，但布兰称，安杰卢在过去一段时间里身体虚弱，并且有心脏方面的问题。
In a statement, President Obama said, “Today, Michelle and I join millions around the world in remembering one of the brightest lights of our time — a brilliant writer, a fierce friend and a truly phenomenal woman,” adding, “She inspired my own mother to name my sister Maya.”
在一份声明中，奥巴马总统说，“今天，米歇尔(Michelle)和我与全世界数百万人一起怀念我们这个时代最耀眼的一颗明星——一位才华横溢的作家、一个忠贞不移的朋友、一名真正杰出的女性。”他接着说，“她启发我母亲给我妹妹取名为玛雅。”
Though her memoirs, which eventually filled six volumes, garnered more critical praise than her poetry did, Ms. Angelou (pronounced AHN-zhe-low) very likely received her widest exposure on a chilly January day in 1993, when she delivered her inaugural poem, “On the Pulse of Morning,” at the swearing-in of Bill Clinton, the nation’s 42nd president. He, like Ms. Angelou, had grown up in Arkansas.
尽管最终长达六卷的回忆录受到的好评多过她的诗歌，但她最受关注的时刻应该发生在1993年1月的一个寒冷日子里，安杰卢当时在美国第42任总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的就职仪式上朗诵了自己的诗作《早晨的脉动》(On the Pulse of Morning)。和安杰卢一样，克林顿也是在阿肯色州长大的。
It began:
这首诗的开头是这样的：
A Rock, A River, A Tree
一块岩石，一条河，一棵树
Hosts to species long since departed,
久已灭绝的物种的主人，
Marked the mastodon,
标注了乳齿象，
The dinosaur, who left dried tokens
恐龙，曾在我们
Of their sojourn here
这颗行星上逗留，
On our planet floor,
并留下铁的证据。
Any broad alarm of their hastening doom
任何有关他们急促死亡的清晰警报
Is lost in the gloom of dust and ages.
早已湮灭于时光和尘埃的阴霾之中。
But today, the Rock cries out to us, clearly, forcefully,
但是今天，岩石向我们呼喊，清晰，有力
Come, you may stand upon my
来吧，你可以站在我的
Back and face your distant destiny,
背上，来面对你那遥远的宿命，
But seek no haven in my shadow,
尽管在我的影子下找不到避难所，
I will give you no hiding place down here.
在这里我也无法给你藏身地。
Long before that day, as she recounted in “Caged Bird” and its sequels, she had already been a dancer, calypso singer, streetcar conductor, single mother, magazine editor in Cairo, administrative assistant in Ghana, official of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and friend or associate of some of the most eminent black Americans of the mid-20th century, including James Baldwin, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X.
正如她在《笼中鸟》(Caged Bird)及其续作中叙述的那样，在那一天之前的很长时间里，她当过舞女、卡利普索小调歌手、有轨电车售票员，是位单身母亲，在开罗当过杂志编辑，在加纳干过行政助理，曾是南方基督教领袖会议(Southern Christian Leadership Conference)的官员，还与詹姆斯·鲍德温(James Baldwin)、牧师小马丁·路德·金博士(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.)、马尔科姆·X(Malcolm X)等20世纪中叶最杰出的美国黑人为友或共事。
Afterward (her six-volume memoir takes her only to age 40), Ms. Angelou was a Tony-nominated stage actress; college professor (she was for many years the Reynolds professor of American studies at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem); ubiquitous presence on the lecture circuit; frequent guest on television shows from “Oprah” to “Sesame Street”; and subject of a string of scholarly studies.
在那之后（在40岁时，她就已经完成了六卷本的回忆录），安杰卢当过舞台演员，获得过托尼奖(Tony)提名；当过大学教授（她多年里一直是温斯顿-塞勒姆的维克森林大学[Wake Forest University]美国研究学的雷洛兹[Reynolds]教授）；在巡回演讲圈里无处不在；在从《奥普拉脱口秀》到《芝麻街》(Sesame Street)的电视节目上频频现身；还是一系列学术研究的对象。
In February 2011, Mr. Obama presented her with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the country’s highest civilian honor.
2011年2月，奥巴马授予她“总统自由勋章”，这是美国平民可以获得的最高荣誉。
Throughout her writing, Ms. Angelou explored the concepts of personal identity and resilience through the multifaceted lens of race, sex, family, community and the collective past. As a whole, her work offered a cleareyed examination of the ways in which the socially marginalizing forces of racism and sexism played out at the level of the individual.
在自己的文学作品中，安杰卢透过种族、性、家庭、社区和共同的过去这些多面性镜头，探索了个人身份认同和心理韧性的概念。总的来说，她的作品清晰地审视了种族主义和性别歧视这些社会中的边缘化力量在个体层面上的呈现方式。
“If growing up is painful for the Southern Black girl, being aware of her displacement is the rust on the razor that threatens the throat,” Ms. Angelou wrote in “I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.”
“如果成长对南方的黑人女孩来说是痛苦的，那么对自己不利地位的意识便是危及咽喉的利刃上的铁锈，”安杰卢在《我知道笼中鸟为何歌唱》中写道。
Hallmarks of Ms. Angelou’s prose style included a directness of voice that recalls African-American oral tradition and gives her work the quality of testimony. She was also intimately concerned with sensation, describing the world around her — be it Arkansas, San Francisco or the foreign cities in which she lived — with palpable feeling for its sights, sounds and smells.
安杰卢散文风格的特点包括语言的率直，这会让人想起非洲裔美国人的口头传统，也让她的作品有了证言般的品质。她还密切关注感触，通过对景象、声音和味道的鲜明感觉来描述身边的世界——无论是阿肯色州、旧金山还是她曾生活过的外国城市。
“I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings,” published when Ms. Angelou was in her early 40s, spans only her first 17 years. But what powerfully formative years they were.
《我知道笼中鸟为何歌唱》出版时，安杰卢40出头。回忆录只记录了她人生的前17年。但那些年正是影响无比深远的性格形成期。
Marguerite Johnson was born in St. Louis on April 4, 1928. (For years after Dr. King’s assassination, on April 4, 1968, Ms. Angelou did not celebrate her birthday.) 
1928年4月4日，玛格丽特·约翰逊(Marguerite Johnson)出生在圣路易斯。（在马丁·路德·金1968年4月4日遇刺后的多年里，安杰卢都不去庆祝生日。）
After her parents’ marriage ended, 3-year-old Maya was sent with her 4-year-old brother, Bailey, to live with their father’s mother in the tiny town of Stamps, Ark., which, she later wrote, “with its dust and hate and narrowness was as South as it was possible to get.”
父母婚姻走到尽头后，3岁的玛雅和4岁的哥哥被送去和阿肯色州小镇斯坦普斯的祖母一起生活。她后来写道，“那里尘土飞扬，充满仇恨，人心狭隘，极具南方特色。”
Their grandmother, Annie Henderson, owned a general store “in the heart of the Negro area,” Ms. Angelou wrote. An upright woman known as Momma, “with her solid air packed around her like cotton,” she is a warm, stabilizing presence throughout “I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.”
安杰卢写道，他们的祖母安妮·约翰逊(Annie Henderson)在“那里的黑人区的中心地段”开了一家杂货店。她被称做妈妈，是一名正直的女性，“值得信赖的神态像棉花一样将她的全身包裹着”。在《我知道笼中鸟为何歌唱》中，她的祖母从始至终都是一个热情、稳定的形象。
The children returned periodically to St. Louis to live with their mother. On one such occasion, when Maya was 7 or 8 (her age varies slightly across her memoirs, which employ techniques of fiction to recount actual events), she was raped by her mother’s boyfriend. She told her brother, who alerted the family, and the man was tried and convicted. Before he could begin serving his sentence, he was murdered — probably, Ms. Angelou wrote, by her uncles.
孩子们不时地会回到圣路易斯和母亲一起生活。其中有一次，在玛雅7岁还是8岁的时候（在她的回忆录中使用了虚构的手法来陈述真实事件，她的年龄在书中存在些许前后不一的情况），她遭到母亲的男朋友的强暴。她把这事跟哥哥说了，哥哥随后告知家人，那个男人被审判、定罪。但是还没开始服刑就被人谋杀了——安杰卢说，可能是她的叔叔们干的。
Believing that her words had brought about the death, Maya did not speak for the next five years. Her love of literature, as she later wrote, helped restore language to her.
玛雅认为是她的话导致了这个人的死，此后五年里一言不发。她后来写道，对文学的热爱帮助她恢复了语言能力。
As a teenager, living with her mother in San Francisco, she studied dance and drama at the California Labor School and became the first black woman to work as a streetcar conductor there. At 16, after a casual liaison with a neighborhood youth, she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. There the first book ends.
少年时代和母亲在旧金山生活时，安杰卢在加州劳动学校(California Labor School)学了舞蹈和戏剧，并成为这座城市历史上首位当上有轨电车车长的黑人女性。16岁那年，她和住在附近的一个小伙子偶然产生感情，随后怀孕生下一个儿子。第一本书在这里结束。
Ms. Angelou goes on to recount her marriage to a Greek sailor, Tosh Angelos. (Throughout her life, she was cagey about the number of times she married — it appears to have been at least three — for fear, she said, of appearing frivolous.)
安杰卢接着回忆了她和希腊水手托什·安杰罗斯(Tosh Angelos)的婚姻。（她一生对自己结婚的次数讳莫如深——看起来至少有三次——说是担心会显得自己轻浮。）
After the marriage dissolved, she embarked on a career as a calypso dancer and singer under the name Maya Angelou, a variant of her married name. A striking stage presence — she was six feet tall — she occasionally partnered in San Francisco with Alvin Ailey in a nightclub act known as Al and Rita.
那次婚姻结束后，她开始用玛雅·安杰卢这个名字开始了一段卡利普索舞者和歌手生涯，这个名字是从她婚后姓名变化而来。六英尺（约合1米82）的身高让她在舞台上格外抢眼，她偶尔会与阿尔文·艾利(Alvin Ailey)合作，在旧金山一个叫做“艾尔和丽塔”(Al and Rita)的夜总会演出。
She was cast in the Truman Capote-Harold Arlen musical “House of Flowers,” which opened on Broadway in 1954. But she chose instead to tour the world as a featured dancer in a production of “Porgy and Bess” by the Everyman Opera Company, a black ensemble.
她曾被杜鲁门·卡波特(Truman Capote)与哈罗德·阿伦(Harold Arlen)合作的音乐剧《花房》(House of Flowers)相中，该剧1954年在百老汇首演。但是她却选择加入黑人团体“凡人歌剧团”(Everyman Opera Company)，以主舞者的身份开始了一次《波吉与贝丝》(Porgy and Bess)的世界巡演。
Ms. Angelou later settled in New York, where she became active in the Harlem Writers Guild (she hoped to be a poet and playwright), sang at the Apollo and eventually succeeded Bayard Rustin as the coordinator of the New York office of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the organization that he, Dr. King and others had founded.
安杰卢后来定居在了纽约，成为哈林作家协会(Harlem Writers Guild)的一个活跃成员（她希望成为一名诗人和剧作家），在阿波罗剧场演唱，最后接替贝雅·拉斯汀(Bayard Rustin)成为南方基督教领袖会议(Southern Christian Leadership Conference)纽约办事处协调人，这个组织是拉斯汀和马丁·路德·金等人一同创办的。
In the early 1960s, Ms. Angelou became romantically involved with Vusumzi L. Make, a South African civil rights activist. She moved with him to Cairo, where she became the associate editor of a magazine, The Arab Observer. After leaving Mr. Make — she found him paternalistic and controlling, she later wrote — she moved to Accra, Ghana, where she was an administrative assistant at the University of Ghana.
上世纪60年代初，安杰卢和南非民权活动人士乌苏姆奇·L·梅克(Vusumzi L. Make)成为恋人。她和他一起搬到了开罗，成为《阿拉伯观察者》(The Arab Observer)杂志的副主编。和梅克分手后——她后来写道，她发现他这个人颇为专断，控制欲极强——她搬到了加纳的阿克拉，在那里的加纳大学担任行政助理。
On returning to New York, Ms. Angelou helped Malcolm X set up the Organization of Afro-American Unity, established in 1964. The group dissolved after his assassination the next year.
回到纽约后，安杰卢协助马尔科姆·X(Malcolm X)创办了非裔美国人团结组织(Organization of Afro-American Unity)。该组织于1964年成立，在第二年马尔科姆·X遇刺后解散。
In 1973, Ms. Angelou appeared on Broadway in “Look Away,” a two-character play about Mary Todd Lincoln (played by Geraldine Page) and her seamstress. Though the play closed after one performance, Ms. Angelou was nominated for a Tony Award. On the screen, she portrayed Kunta Kinte’s grandmother in the 1977 television mini-series “Roots,” and appeared in several feature films, including “How to Make an American Quilt” (1995).
1973年，安杰卢参演了百老汇剧目《环顾左右》(Look Away)，这是一出有两个人物的戏，讲得是玛丽·托德·林肯（Mary Todd Lincoln，由杰拉尔丁·佩奇[Geraldine Page]饰演）和她的女裁缝的故事。这出戏仅演出了一场就停演了，但安杰卢还是得到了一个托尼奖(Tony Award)提名。在影视方面，她在1977年的迷你系列剧《根》(Roots)中饰演了昆塔·肯泰(Kunta Kinte)的祖母，并在许多影片中出演角色，包括1995年的《如何做一条美国拼布毯》(How to Make an American Quilt。
Ms. Angelou’s marriage in the 1970s to Paul du Feu, who had previously been wed to the feminist writer Germaine Greer, ended in divorce. Survivors include her son, three grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
安杰卢在上世纪70年代和保罗·杜福(Paul du Feu)的婚姻以离婚告终，后者曾经和女性主义作家杰梅茵·格里尔(Germaine Greer)有过一段婚姻。她的身后留有她的儿子、三个孙辈和一个曾孙辈。
Some reviewers expressed reservations about Ms. Angelou’s memoiristic style, calling it facile and solipsistic. Others criticized her poetry as being little more than prose with line breaks. But her importance as a literary, cultural and historical figure was amply borne out by the many laurels she received, including a spate of honorary doctorates.
一些评论者对安杰卢的回忆录风格存在质疑，称这是轻率而唯我的。还有人批评她的诗更像是断了行的散文。然而她所获得的众多荣誉充分表明她作为一个文学、文化和历史人物的重要性，这些荣誉中还包括众多荣誉博士学位。
Her other books include the volumes of poetry, “Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water ‘fore I Diiie” (1971), “Oh Pray My Wings Are Gonna Fit Me Well” (1975), “And Still I Rise” (1978) and “Shaker, Why Don’t You Sing?” (1983).
她的著作还包括《临终我只要一杯冰水》(Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water ‘fore I Diiie, 1971)、《但求我的翅膀能合身》(Oh Pray My Wings Are Gonna Fit Me Well, 1975)、《我仍将重生》(And Still I Rise, 1978)、《摇酒器你为何不歌唱》(Shaker, Why Don’t You Sing, 1983)等诗集。
She released an album of songs, “Miss Calypso,” in 1957.
她在1957年发行了一张歌曲专辑《卡利普索小姐》(Miss Calypso, 1957)。
But she remained best known for her memoirs, a striking fact because she had never set out to be a memoirist. Near the end of “A Song Flung Up to Heaven,” Ms. Angelou recalls her response when Robert Loomis, who would become her longtime editor at Random House, first asked her to write an autobiography.
但她最出名的作品始终是回忆录，考虑到她从未打算过作一名回忆录作家。在《一首被扔上天堂的歌》(A Song Flung Up to Heaven)一书结尾处，安杰卢回忆起多年在兰登书屋(Random House)担任其编辑的罗伯特·卢米斯(Robert Loomis)当初向她提出写一本自传时，她做出了怎样的反应。
Still planning to be a playwright and poet, she demurred. Cannily, Mr. Loomis called her again.
还在打算作剧作家和诗人的她表示反对。明智的卢米斯又给她打了一次电话。
“You may be right not to attempt autobiography, because it is nearly impossible to write autobiography as literature,” he said. “Almost impossible.”
“你决定不写自传也许是对的，因为拿自传当文学写几近不可能，”他说。“几乎是不可能的。”
Ms. Angelou replied, “I’ll start tomorrow.”
安杰卢答道：“我明天就开始。”