FERGUSON, Mo. —  As a county grand jury prepared to hear evidence on Wednesday in the shooting death of a black teenager by a white police officer that touched off 10 days of unrest here, witnesses have given investigators sharply conflicting accounts of the killing.
密苏里州弗格森——这里一名白人警官枪杀一位黑人少年的事情已引发了10天的动乱，随着一个县级大陪审团准备周三听取有关证据，证人们向调查者描述的枪杀情况大相径庭。
Some of the accounts seem to agree on how the fatal altercation initially unfolded: with a struggle between the officer, Darren Wilson, and the teenager, Michael Brown. Officer Wilson was inside his patrol car at the time, while Mr. Brown, who was unarmed, was leaning in through an open window.
有些描述看来在一点上相同，那就是警官达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)和少年迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)之间的致命争斗最初是如何展开的：当时，威尔逊在他的巡逻车内，没有武器的布朗把头伸进了打开的车窗。
Many witnesses also agreed on what happened next: Officer Wilson’s firearm went off inside the car, Mr. Brown ran away, the officer got out of his car and began firing toward Mr. Brown, and then Mr. Brown stopped, turned around and faced the officer.
许多证人对接下来发生的事情有一致的描述：威尔逊的枪在车内开火，布朗跑开，警官从车中出来，开始朝着布朗射击，然后布朗停了下来，转身面对警官。
But on the crucial moments that followed, the accounts differ sharply, officials say. Some witnesses say Mr. Brown, 18, moved toward Officer Wilson, possibly in a threatening manner, when the officer shot him dead. But others say Mr. Brown was not moving and may even have had his hands up when he was killed.
但调查者说，人们对随后的关键时刻的描述则截然不同。一些证人说，18岁的布朗走向威尔逊，可能还气势汹汹，此时警官开枪打死了他。但也有人说，布朗站在原地不动，甚至在他被射死时可能还举着双手。
The accounts of what witnesses have told law enforcement officials come from some of those witnesses themselves, law enforcement authorities and others in Ferguson. Many of them spoke on the condition of anonymity because they did not want to be identified discussing an ongoing investigation.
本报获得的这些证人向执法官员提供的描述，来自其中某些证人本人、执法机关，以及弗格森的其他人。他们中许多人要求匿名，因为他们讨论的是正在进行的调查，所以不想透露姓名。
The new details on the witness accounts emerged as Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. was scheduled to visit Ferguson on Wednesday to meet with F.B.I. agents who have been conducting a civil rights investigation into the shooting.
证人描述的新细节浮出水面，正是在美国司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)原定周三前往弗格森，与美国联邦调查局(FBI)特工见面的时候，FBI正在调查枪击事件中涉及公民权利法的问题。
Mr. Holder and top Justice Department officials were weighing whether to open a broader civil rights investigation to look at Ferguson’s police practices at large, according to law enforcement officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal discussions. The issue came up after news reports revealed a 2009 case in which a man said that four police officers beat him, then charged him with damaging government property — by getting blood on their uniforms.
霍尔德和司法部高级官员正在考虑是否对整个弗格森警察局的做法展开更广泛的民权法调查，据不愿透露姓名的执法官员说，要求匿名是因为这是内部的讨论。之所以考虑这个问题，是因为此前有新闻报道披露了一个2009年的案子：一名男子说，4名警察殴打了他，然后起诉他破坏政府财产，因为他让血迹脏了他们的制服。
Under Mr. Holder, the Justice Department has opened nearly two dozen such investigations into police departments nationwide, more than twice as many as were opened in the previous five years, according to department data.
据司法部数据统计，在霍尔德的领导下，司法部已对全国警察部门展开二十多起这种调查，高出此前5年中所调查的案子数目的一倍还多。
As clashes between the police and street protesters continued on Tuesday, federal authorities learned the results of an autopsy performed on Mr. Brown by military coroners that showed that he had been shot six times, though they declined to release further details until their investigation was finished. An autopsy conducted on behalf of Mr. Brown’s family also found that he had been shot at least six times — including once in the face and once in the top of his head — with all bullets striking him in the front. The county has also done its own autopsy, which found evidence of marijuana in Mr. Brown’s system.
随着警察与街头抗议者的冲突在周二继续进行，联邦当局从军方法医那里得到了他们做的布朗尸检的结果，结果显示他被子弹击中了六次，但军方法医在他们的调查完成之前，拒绝透露更多的细节。一个在布朗家人要求下对布朗做的尸检结果也发现，他被枪击中至少六次，包括一次在面部，一次在他的头顶，子弹都是从他的前面射入的。该县也自己做了尸检，在布朗的身体内发现了使用大麻的证据。
The Brown family has scheduled a funeral for Monday.
布朗的家人已经安排在周一举行葬礼。
In a statement Tuesday night, Gov. Jay Nixon expressed sympathy for the Brown family and praised residents for “standing against armed and violent instigators.” But he also said that “a vigorous prosecution must now be pursued.”
州长杰伊·尼克松(Jay Nixon)在周二晚的一份声明中，对布朗的家人表示同情，并称赞居民能“站出来反对武装和暴力的煽动者。”但他也说，“现在必须就起诉展开一场严密的调查。”
“The democratically elected St. Louis County prosecutor and the attorney general of the United States each have a job to do,” Mr. Nixon said. “Their obligation to achieve justice in the shooting death of Michael Brown must be carried out thoroughly, promptly and correctly; and I call upon them to meet those expectations.”
“由民主选举产生的圣路易斯县检察官以及美国法部长，都有各自的工作要做，”尼克松说。 “他们的义务是为迈克尔·布朗被枪杀伸张正义，实行这个义务必须要彻底、及时和正确，我恳求他们不负众望。”
The fatal confrontation began on Aug. 9 shortly after the police received reports that two men had robbed a convenience store in Ferguson. Officer Wilson, who was not responding to the robbery, had stopped to speak with Mr. Brown and a friend, Dorian Johnson. The Ferguson police chief, Thomas Jackson, said that it was around the time that Officer Wilson started talking to the two that he realized they fit the description of the suspects in the convenience store robbery.
8月9日的致命对峙开始前不久，警方接到报告说，两名男子抢劫了弗格森的一家便利店。威尔逊当时已停下车来，在与布朗及其朋友多里安·约翰逊(Dorian Johnson)说话，他并不是在针对抢劫报告做出回应。弗格森警察局长托马斯·杰克逊(Thomas Jackson)说，差不多是在威尔逊与他们说话的时候，他意识到，这两个人符合抢劫便利店的犯罪嫌疑人的描述。
A lawyer for Mr. Johnson said that his client was interviewed by the F.B.I. and the St. Louis County Police last week for nearly four hours. In that interview, Mr. Johnson admitted that he and Mr. Brown had stolen cigarillos from the store, said the lawyer, Freeman R. Bosley Jr.
约翰逊的律师说，他的当事人上周接受了美国联邦调查局和圣路易斯县警察局长达四个小时的询问。在询问中，约翰逊承认，他和布朗在便利店里偷了小雪茄，这位名叫小弗里曼·R·波斯利(Freeman R. Bosley Jr.)的律师说。
Mr. Bosley said that the officer told the two to get off the street, adding that Mr. Johnson told the officer that he lived nearby. They got into a bit of a verbal dispute with the officer about whether walking in the street constituted a crime, Mr. Bosley said.
波斯利说，警官叫他们两人不要呆在大街上，约翰逊告诉警官他们就住在附近。波斯莱说，对在大街上行走算不算犯法的问题，他们与警官发生了口头纠纷。
Contrary to what several witnesses have told law enforcement officials, Mr. Bosley said that the officer then reached out of the window with his left hand and grabbed Mr. Brown by the throat. He said Mr. Brown pushed him off, and the officer then grabbed Mr. Brown’s shirt.
与一些证人对执法人员说所的相反，波斯利说，警官从车窗中伸出左手，抓住布朗的脖子。他说，布朗推开了警官，而警官又抓住了布朗的衬衫。
“My client sees the officer pull a gun and hears him say, ‘I’ll shoot you’ — then ‘pow!’ there was a shot,” Mr. Bosley said, referring to the one that apparently went off in the car. “He did not describe a scuffle. It was more of a scuffle for him to get away.”
“我的当事人看到警官拿枪，听到他说，‘我开枪打死你’，然后就是‘砰！’的一声枪响，”波斯利说，他指的看来是在车里开的那一枪。“他没说有扭打。更费力的是他从那里跑走。”
Asked if Mr. Brown had punched the officer, Mr. Bosley said that Mr. Johnson “did not observe that.”
对布朗是否用拳头打了警官的问题，波斯利回答说，约翰逊“没有看到那个。”
However, law enforcement officials say witnesses and forensic analysis have shown that Officer Wilson did sustain an injury during the struggle in the car.
不过，执法官员说，证人和取证分析表明，威尔逊的确在车内扭打中受了点伤。
As Officer Wilson got out of his car, the men were running away. The officer fired his weapon but did not hit anyone, according to law enforcement officials.
当威尔逊从他的车中出来时，那两个男子正在跑开。据执法人员说，威尔逊开了枪，但没有打中任何人。
Several witnesses have told investigators that Mr. Brown stopped and turned around with his arms up.
几位证人告诉调查者，布朗停了下来，并转过身来举起双手。
According to his account to the Ferguson police, Officer Wilson said that Mr. Brown had lowered his arms and moved toward him, law enforcement officials said. Fearing that the teenager was going to attack him, the officer decided to use deadly force. Some witnesses have backed up that account. Others, however — including Mr. Johnson — have said that Mr. Brown did not move toward the officer before the final shots were fired.
执法人员说，在威尔逊对弗格森警察局做的交代中，他说，布朗放下双臂，向他靠近。由于害怕该少年会袭击他，这名警官决定使用致命武力。一些证人提供了与这个说法一致的证词。但包括约翰逊在内的其他证人则表示，在最后开枪之前，布朗没有向警官靠近。
A lawyer for the police union, Greg Kleoppel, did not return calls for comment.
警察工会的律师格雷格·克里欧帕尔(Greg Kleoppel)没有回复请求置评的电话。
The F.B.I., Mr. Bosley said, pressed Mr. Johnson to say how high Mr. Brown’s hands were. Mr. Johnson said that his hands were not that high, and that one was lower than the other, because he appeared to be “favoring it,” the lawyer said.
波斯利说，联邦调查局就布朗的手举得多高的问题，详细询问了约翰逊。约翰逊说，布朗的手没举多高，而且一只手比另一只高，因为他似乎“更喜欢那只手”，这位律师说。
James McKnight, who also said he saw the shooting, said that Mr. Brown’s hands were up right after he turned around to face the officer.
詹姆斯·麦肯奈特(James McKnight)说，他看到了枪击过程，他说，布朗在转过身来面对警官后，举起了双手。
“I saw him stumble toward the officer, but not rush at him,” Mr. McKnight said in a brief interview. “The officer was about six or seven feet away from him.”
“我看到他跌跌撞撞地走向警官，而不是冲向他，”麦肯奈特在简短的采访中说。“警官离他大约有六、七英尺(约2米)远。”