ATLANTA — Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina is the daughter of immigrants, favors free markets and global trade, and earned international attention for speaking out against the Confederate battle flag in the aftermath of the 2015 massacre at a black church in Charleston. During Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, she criticized his demeanor and warned what it might mean for American diplomacy — even suggesting that his tendency to lash out at critics could cause a world war.
亚特兰大――南卡罗来纳州州长尼基·R·黑利(Nikki R. Haley)是移民的女儿，她赞同自由市场和全球贸易，因2015年查尔斯顿黑人教堂屠杀事件之后发表声明反对南部邦联战旗而引起国际关注。在唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的总统竞选期间，她严厉批评了他的风度举止，并就其对美国外交可能造成的影响发出了警告，甚至暗示他对批评者肆意抨击的倾向可能导致一场世界大战。
But Wednesday, Trump named Haley as his choice for ambassador to the United Nations, a move that will most likely serve to both assuage and confound the president-elect’s critics, raising questions about the tone and direction of his foreign policy. She would also add ethnic and gender diversity to the appointments, so far predominantly white men, he has made to other top posts in the administration.
但在周三，特朗普提名黑利为驻联合国大使的人选，目前候任总统的批评者们就他外交政策的基调和方向提出了种种疑问，这一举动很可能既是为了安抚，也是为了迷惑他们。作为一名印度裔美国人，她还为特朗普的内阁任命增添了族裔和性别多样性，目前他内阁中其他重要职位的人选主要是白人男性。
In a statement, Haley said she had accepted Trump’s offer because she felt good about South Carolina’s economic standing under her leadership. She added that this month’s elections had brought “exciting changes to America.”
在一份声明中，黑利说她接受了特朗普的提议，因为她对于自己领导下南卡罗来纳州的经济成就感到满意。她补充说，这个月的选举“为美国带来激动人心的变化”。
“When the president believes you have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our nation’s standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed,” the statement said.
声明说，“如果总统相信你可以对我们国家的福祉，乃至我们国家在世界上的地位作出重大贡献，如此重要的召唤必须听从。”
The reaction Wednesday from Republicans in South Carolina’s congressional delegation demonstrated the broad appeal Haley has earned among conservatives statewide and in Washington. Sen. Lindsey Graham, one of Trump’s harshest critics in the past, praised the nomination, writing on Twitter that Haley would be a “strong voice for U.N. reform and stand for American interests throughout the world.”
周三，南卡罗来纳州国会代表团的共和党人的反应表明，黑利在全州乃至华盛顿的保守派当中获得了广泛支持。特朗普过去最严厉的批评者之一林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)参议员称赞了这一提名，他在Twitter上写道，黑利将是“联合国改革的强劲声音，能在世界范围代表美国的利益”。
Rep. Joe Wilson of South Carolina, a member of the Tea Party caucus, said in a statement that Haley’s “fortitude for freedom and democracy will prevail over constant attacks on America and our ally, Israel.”
南卡罗来纳州众议员乔伊·威尔逊(Joe Wilson)是茶党党团会议的成员，他在一份声明中说，黑利“对自由与民主的坚韧不拔将战胜对美国以及我们的盟友以色列的不断攻击”。
But others tempered their admiration for Haley with concern about whether her public service credentials, which are limited to South Carolina government, will translate to the world stage.
由于黑利的的公共服务资历仅限于南卡罗来纳州政府，有些人担心这种经验是否能顺利转化到世界舞台上，因此没有急于表示对她的赞赏。
“My very practical reaction is that she’d be the least experienced U.N. ambassador in the history of the country,” said Bakari Sellers, a CNN commentator and a Democrat who befriended Haley when they served together in the state House of Representatives. “You go from Samantha Power” — the current U.N. ambassador — “who was very well versed in foreign policy and our geopolitical relationships, to Nikki Haley, who hasn’t been in that depth ever.”
“我的反应很现实，她将是该国历史上最缺乏经验的联合国大使，”CNN评论员、民主党人巴卡里·塞勒斯(Bakari Sellers)说，他和黑利在担任州众议员期间成了朋友。“你的前任是萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)”――现任联合国大使――“她非常精通外交政策和我们的地缘政治关系，尼基·黑利还没有达到这种高度。”
“But on a larger level, I am more than pleased with the nomination,” Sellers said. “I disagree with Nikki Haley on policy, but Nikki Haley would be a bright light in this administration. She’s the daughter of immigrants, and her story is one I feel comfortable sharing with my daughter on how you can be a success in this country.”
“但在更广泛的层面上，我对这项任命感到非常高兴，”塞勒斯说。“我和尼基·黑利在政策上有分歧，但尼基·黑利会成为这一届政府的亮点。她是移民的女儿，在教育我女儿如何能在这个国家取得成功时，我愿意给她讲尼基·黑利的故事。”
Haley’s admirers note that she repeatedly traveled abroad as governor to promote the state as a desirable place for investment. Her highest-profile trip, perhaps, was a 2014 visit to India, the birthplace of her parents. Her husband, Michael, has also served in Afghanistan as an officer in the South Carolina National Guard.
黑利的支持者指出，为了宣传该州的理想投资目的地形象，她多次以州长的身份出国访问。她最受关注的出访，大概是2014年访问她父母的出生地印度那一次。她的丈夫也曾以南卡罗来纳州国民警卫队(South Carolina National Guard)军官的身份在阿富汗服役。
“I was raised by the Indian community, and those families are still very close to us,” Nikki Haley said in a 2012 interview with The New York Times.
“我是在印度社区长大的，那些家庭和我们依然非常亲密，”尼基·黑利在2012年接受《纽约时报》采访时说。
More generally, Haley has overcome concerns that she would be a one-dimensional insurgent outsider, similar to worries that dog Trump. Her 2010 campaign was given a major lift by an endorsement from former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, the polarizing darling of the Tea Party movement. But Haley has forged a middle path that embraces the conciliatory racial attitudes favored by the left and the business-friendly ethos of the right.
更广泛地说，黑利克服了对她是一个肤浅、叛逆的局外人的担忧。这些担忧和困扰特朗普的那些忧虑类似。2010年竞选州长时，来自深得茶党运动赏识的争议人物、前阿拉斯加州州长萨拉·佩林(Sarah Palin)的支持，给了她巨大的帮助。但黑利制定了一条中间路线，信奉左翼支持的温和种族态度和右翼的亲商理念。
This balancing act faced perhaps its greatest test in June 2015, after nine African-Americans were shot and killed at the historically black Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston. The white supremacist charged in the massacre, Dylann S. Roof, had posed with the Confederate battle flag in pictures. And for years, blacks and liberals in South Carolina had pleaded with the conservatives who dominate the state government to take the flag down from a prominent spot it occupied in front of the state Capitol building.
2015年6月，在九名非裔美国人在查尔斯顿传统上属于黑人教堂的以马内利非裔卫理圣公会教堂(Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church)遭遇枪击身亡后，这种平衡面临的考验大概是最严峻的。因为这起大屠杀而受到指控的白人至上主义者迪伦·S·鲁夫(Dylann S. Roof)曾在多张照片中和南部邦联战旗合影。并且南卡罗来纳州的黑人和自由主义者多年来请求控制州政府的保守派将邦联战旗降下来。那面旗子占据着该州议会大厦前面的显要位置。
Haley, the first ethnic minority and first woman to be elected as the state’s governor, had previously sided with fellow Republicans, who argued that the flag was not a racist symbol.
黑利是该州首位少数族裔州长和首位女性州长。以前，她和其他共和党人站在同一边，认为那面旗帜并不是种族主义的象征。
But the Emanuel massacre hit home personally. She had been a friend of state Sen. Clementa C. Pinckney, a Democrat and pastor of the church, who was one of the dead. Haley had a change of heart.
但以马内利大屠杀给了她本人重重的一击。她和遇难的州民主党参议员、该教堂的牧师克莱门塔·C·平克尼(Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney)是朋友。黑利改变了看法。
“It came down to one simple thing,” Haley told The Times in June 2015. “I couldn’t look my son or daughter in the face and justify that flag flying anymore.”
“归结到一件简单的事情上，”黑利2015年6月对时报说。“我无法再看着我儿子或女儿的脸为那面旗子继续在空中飘扬辩解。”
Haley, a nimble campaigner who is equally at home among CEOs and denim-clad bikers, easily won re-election in 2014, after arguing that her maintenance of South Carolina’s anti-union, low-regulation atmosphere had been the key to an economic comeback. Under her leadership, the state continued a trend of looking beyond its boundaries — and very often abroad — to attract new industries to replace a fading textile industry.
黑利是一名灵活的竞选者。无论是和首席执行官们在一起，还是和穿着牛仔服的摩托骑手的人在一起，她都同样自如。2014年，在辩称自己保持南卡罗来纳州反对工会和减少监管氛围的举措是经济复苏的关键后，黑利轻松赢得连任。在她的领导下，该州把目光投向州界以外——经常是国外——以吸引新行业，取代日渐衰败的纺织业继续发展。
Business leaders have said that Haley often personally woos prospective new companies. Ted Pitts, the chief executive of the South Carolina Chamber of Commerce, said he expected her business experience to translate into successful diplomacy.
商业领袖称黑利常常会亲自争取前景看好的新公司。南卡罗来纳州商会(South Carolina Chamber of Commerce)会长特德·皮茨(Ted Pitts)认为她的商业经验会转化为成功的外交技巧。
“She’s possibly the best governor South Carolina has ever seen, and I expect she’ll go down as one of the best U.N. ambassadors the country’s ever seen,” Pitts said. “She has a unique ability to connect to people, to negotiate, and to make the other side feel they’ve been treated fairly.”
“她可能是南卡罗来纳州有史以来最优秀的州长，我预计她会继续前进，成为美国有史以来最优秀的驻联合国大使之一，”皮茨说。“她具有独一无二的与人拉近距离、谈判和让对方觉得自己得到了公正对待的能力。”
It is a record that might seem to be at odds with Trump’s skepticism of global trade agreements and his promise to subject imports from Mexico and China to steep tariffs.
这样的履历看上去可能和特朗普对全球贸易协议的怀疑态度，以及对来自墨西哥和中国的进口商品征收高额关税的承诺不相符。
But there are other areas of agreement. In 2014, Haley criticized federal plans that would force power plants to cut carbon emissions. In October 2015, at a news conference in which she addressed historic flooding in the state, she bristled and declined to answer after a reporter inquired about her position on the human contribution to climate change.
但在其他领域，两人意见一致。2014年，黑利批评了强迫发电厂减少碳排放的联邦计划。2015年10月，黑利在一场新闻发布会上提到了该州的特大洪灾。在一名记者询问她关于人类对气候变化的影响的立场时，黑利大为光火并拒绝回答。