Shariq Hashme squints at his laptop screen as he scrolls through hundreds of lines of computer code. “I can’t even make sense of it right now,” he says with a grimace. The long string of numbers, symbols and letters would usually be intelligible to Mr. Hashme, a 21-year-old computer science major at the University of Maryland, College Park, but at this moment, he’s having trouble even keeping his eyes open. In the last 27 hours, he has slept just two.
沙利·哈士满(Shariq Hashme)眯缝着眼睛，盯着笔记本电脑的屏幕，一手滚动着鼠标，浏览着上百条的计算机程序代码。“我现在连它在写什么都不知道了，”他扮了个鬼脸说。这些一长串的数字、符号和字母的含义，在这名21岁的马里兰大学帕克分校计算机科学系学生而言，通常是一目了然；但是此时此刻，他就连眼睛都快要睁不开了。在过去的27个小时里，他只睡了两个小时。
It’s 2:37 a.m. on a Sunday, and he is toiling alongside 671 young software engineers who are camped out in and around a 6,000-square-foot ballroom in Stanford’s alumni center. The space resembles an oversize dorm room during final exams: Temporary workstations are cluttered with computers, electronics cables, half-eaten doughnuts and empty cans of Red Bull. As hundreds of students type feverishly at their laptops, dozens more are passed out in sleeping bags. Meanwhile, an overhead sound system blasts bass-heavy songs — think Kanye West.
现在是星期日的凌晨2点37分，他正在与671名年轻的软件工程师并肩奋战，他们全都在斯坦福大学校友中心一间6,000平方英尺的舞厅里打地铺。这里会在期末考试期间搭建出一处面积超大的住宿区，临时的工作台上杂乱地摆放着电脑、线缆、啃了一半的面包圈和已被喝光的红牛饮料空罐。就在几百名学生仍在自己的笔记本电脑上狂热地敲击着键盘时，陆续有十几名学生在睡袋里昏睡了过去。此时此刻，天花板上的一架音响系统反复播放着超重低音的歌曲——就是肯伊·威斯特(Kanye West)的那种。
“What’s really cool about this atmosphere is that it’s pretty easy to say ‘Screw it’ when it comes to schoolwork,” says Vikram Rajagopalan, a sophomore from the University of Michigan. “Pulling out a textbook is very frowned upon.”
“这种氛围中感觉最棒的一点就是，需要做学校作业的时候，可以很随意地甩一句‘管它呢’，”密歇根大学二年级学生维克拉姆·拉贾戈帕兰(Vikram Rajagopalan)说，“在这种时候，抽出课本是件让人非常不爽的事。”
None of these sleep-deprived students is cramming for midterms or racing to finish a class assignment. They’re participating in TreeHacks, a 36-hour contest to program mobile apps, websites or hardware, including aerial drones and virtual reality headsets. The goal of a hackathon, a portmanteau of marathon and hacking, isn’t to obtain confidential data the way hackers infiltrated Sony Pictures last year. Instead, teams attempt to build a new piece of tech, either of their choosing or with code provided by one of the sponsors. At the end, the judges walk from table to table as the programmers show off their projects, just like a school science fair.
这些睡眠不足的学生中，没有一人会为了期中考试而死记硬背，或者比赛谁能更快地做完课堂作业。他们正在参加一场全长36小时的竞赛TreeHacks，为移动应用、网站或硬件（包括无人机和虚拟现实头盔）编写程序。“黑客松”这个说法，出自“马拉松”和“黑客”这两个词语的拼合，其目的并不是要像去年黑客入侵索尼影业(Sony Pictures)那样，获取机密数据。事实上，这些编程团队的任务是创建一项新技术，可以由自己选择主题，也可以利用任一家赞助商所提供的代码。在比赛最后，评委会逐一走到每个工作台前，让这些编程人员们演示他们的项目，就像校内科学竞赛那样。
During the opening ceremony for TreeHacks (named for the fir-shaped mascot), a DirecTV representative grabbed a microphone and announced: “We want you to build the future of television!” On the same stage, two reps from Microsoft encouraged students to build projects using its motion-sensing Kinect and shot T-shirts into the crowd using a cannon controlled by the device. Mr. Hashme’s team spent the weekend programming four Kinects with an Oculus Rift virtual reality headset to create an immersive 3-D videoconferencing system.
在TreeHacks（得名于那只杉树形状的吉祥物）的开幕典礼上，一位来自美国直播电视集团(DirecTV)的代表接过一只麦克风，宣称：“我们想让你们来打造电视界的未来！”同样是在这座讲台上，来自微软(Microsoft)的两位代表则鼓励学生们基于该公司的动作感应系统Kinect来设计项目，并用一门利用该系统控制的大炮，向人群中抛出了几件T恤。哈士满先生的团队，将整个周末的时间都用来编写四套基于Kinect系统的Oculus Rift虚拟现实头盔的程序，以此打造出一套沉浸式的三维视频会议系统。
Hackathons have become commonplace among professional developers, especially in booming tech centers like San Francisco and New York, and have emerged as prime places for networking, job recruiting, entrepreneurial pitching and, in many cases, winning cash. (One sponsored by the tech company Salesforce famously offered a $1 million prize to the most innovative project.)
黑客松已经成了专业开发人员之间的例行盛事，特别是在旧金山、纽约这些欣欣向荣的科技中心地区，黑客松还成了一处黄金地点，可供他们建立人脉、招募英才、创业推广，很多时候还能赢取奖金。（由科技公司Salesforce赞助的一次黑客松活动，为最有创意的项目提供了100万美元的奖金，从而传为美谈。）
Now weekend hackathons organized by and for students are surging in size, scale and frequency. “A few years ago, hackathons weren’t really that popular — it was sort of a subculture,” says Kathryn Siegel, a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “There’s been an enormous explosion.”
目前，由学生为学生组织的周末黑客松活动，无论是数量、规模还是频度，都在急剧增长。“就在几年之前，黑客松都还没有这么流行――充其量只能算是某种亚文化，”麻省理工学院大三学生凯瑟琳·西格尔(Kathryn Siegel)说，“这段时间以来出现了大规模的爆发。”
Last year there were some 40 intercollegiate hackathons. This year more than 150 are expected, according to Jon Gottfried, a founder of Major League Hacking. The company, often called the N.C.A.A. of college hackathons, provides guidelines and resources for student organizers and ranks colleges based on their students’ overall performance during fall and spring. Last fall, the top school was the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.
去年总共有40场左右的校际黑客松举行。今年预计则会超过150场，“黑客大联盟”(Major League Hacking)的创始人乔恩·戈特弗里德(Jon Gottfried)说。这家公司常被戏称为大学黑客松的“全美大学生体育协会”(N.C.A.A.)，他们专为学生组织方提供指导和资源，并根据各校学生在秋季和春季的整体表现，对大学进行排名。在去年秋季，占据榜首的学校是伊利诺伊大学香槟分校。
The longest-running collegiate hackathon, founded at the University of Pennsylvania in 2009, has since ballooned to accommodate 1,200 students each semester. Demand, though, is far outpacing growth. At TreeHacks, 2,500 applied for 500 spots. (Capacity was later expanded to 672, which required setting up a heated outdoor tent.) More than 250 participants traveled to Palo Alto, Calif., from some 60 universities, including five Ivy League schools, top-tier engineering programs like Carnegie Mellon, M.I.T. and Georgia Tech, and universities as far away as the United Kingdom and Taiwan.
目前赛时最长的大学黑客松，由宾夕法尼亚大学在2009年举办，自那之后，参赛人数便迅速膨胀，每学期都要接待1,200名参赛学生。然而，学生们对这场赛事的需求，远远超出了其规模的增长势头。TreeHacks活动共有2,500人申请，共同争夺500个参赛名额。（名额数量在后来增加到672组，因而需要另设一个带保暖设施的户外帐篷。）有250余名参与者都是专程赶到加利福尼亚州的帕洛阿尔托市的，他们分别来自外地的60所大学，包括五所常春藤盟校和顶级工程学课程，譬如卡内基梅隆大学、麻省理工学院和佐治亚理工学院，还有一些远在英国和台湾的大学。
Hackathon organizers take care to extend invitations to women, various ethnicities and new participants as well as the veterans. In most cases, sponsors underwrite the entire cost — upward of $300,000. That includes student travel expenses, be it on a bus rented by organizers or a domestic flight. Students are also provided free housing (the floor or a sofa perhaps), free meals, free snacks, free beverages, free T-shirts, free blankets, free toiletries and, sometimes, free massages. TreeHacks scheduled games of ultimate Frisbee, laser tag and tug of war and a morning yoga session.
黑客松组织方特别用心，让参赛邀请也能够覆盖到女性、不同种族、新人参赛者以及退伍军人。大部分时候，赞助商都会承诺支付所有的费用――最高可达30万美元。其中涵括参赛学生的路费，不管他们坐的是组织方租赁的大巴，还是国内航班。组织方还向参赛学生提供免费住宿（可能是地板或沙发）、免费三餐、免费零食、免费饮料、免费T恤、免费毯子、免费卫浴用品，有时甚至还有免费按摩。TreeHacks还安排了多项游戏节目，有极限飞盘、激光枪战、拔河比赛，还有晨间的瑜伽课。
“It’s a big party,” says Mr. Rajagopalan, who directs the University of Michigan hackathon. “At MHacks, we had therapy dogs come just so people could pet puppies.”
“这就是一场大派对，”同时也是密歇根大学黑客松活动负责人的拉贾戈帕兰先生说，“在我们的MHacks上，我们还会放治疗犬出来，这样大家就有宠物狗可以玩了。”
Social activities offer only a brief reprieve from the stress. Aside from having to debug their computer code at the last minute, Mr. Hashme’s teammates struggled for hours with basic carpentry. They needed to construct a four-foot-tall frame for holding the Kinect cameras. They took an Uber car to Home Depot to buy two-by-fours and supplies but, curiously, the software engineers did not return with a hammer and nails. They tried joining the boards with Elmer’s wood glue, which failed to dry, so in a last-ditch effort they frantically wrapped electrical tape all around their rickety wooden frame.
社交活动只能让参赛者们从压力中短暂纾解一下。除了得在比赛结束前的最后一刻为自己的程序代码调试外，哈士满先生的队友们还做了好几个小时的简单木工。他们需要搭建一个四英尺高的木架，用来摆放Kinect的摄像头。他们叫了一辆优步（Uber）专车，到家居连锁店家得宝(Home Depot)买了一些二乘四英尺的木材和物料，但是让人不解的是，这些软件工程师们却没有带着榔头和钉子回来。他们试着用埃尔默牌的木胶将木板拼接起来，但木胶却一直不干，无可奈何之下，他们只好简单粗暴地在所有这些东倒西歪的木制架子四周缠满了绝缘胶带。
They didn’t win. Top honors went to programmers from Purdue and the University of Waterloo who developed a robotic arm controlled by motion sensor. The engineers won a free trip on a zero-gravity airplane (one ticket: about $5,000) as well as travel expenses and admission to hackathons in Taiwan and South Korea. Other prizes: a 50-inch flat-screen television, airfare to Hawaii and a trip to Paris.
他们没能赢得比赛。大奖被颁给了来自普度大学和滑铁卢大学的程序员，他们开发的是一只由运动传感器控制的机器人手臂。这些工程师们赢得了一趟免费的零重力飞机乘坐之旅（一张机票大概价值5,000美元），还有前往参加台湾及韩国黑客松的旅费和参赛许可。其他的奖品还有：一台50英寸的超平电视机、夏威夷单程机票，以及巴黎行。
Hackathon-goers maintain that what motivates them is not the awards. Mr. Hashme, who directs the University of Maryland’s Bitcamp, has participated in more than 40 hackathons since 2013. He says he attends because they force him to learn new tech skills. “Sitting in your dorm alone and trying to work on something, you wind up doing things you regret later, like watching a movie or browsing the Internet,” he says. At hackathons he enjoys meeting like-minded students from across the country — “It’s a room full of doers.”
黑客松的参赛者们坚称，奖项并不是激励他们参与的动力所在。哈士满先生也是马里兰大学黑客松活动Bitcamp的负责人，自2013年以来，他已经参加过40多次黑客松。他说，他之所以参加，是因为这项赛事能够逼迫着他去学习新的技术技能。“独自坐在宿舍里，想要认真做点事情的时候，最后一定会干起那些事后会让你后悔的事，像是看电影啦，上网什么的，”他说。他十分乐于在黑客松上结识来自美国各地与自己志趣相投的学生――“这里满屋子都是行动者”。
Fostering an education-first ethos, collegiate hackathons encourage students to tinker with new software and hardware and challenge themselves, and students teach one another. “There’s an expert on nearly anything there,” says Dave Fontenot, a former director of MHacks. “If you ask who the best JavaScript person is, pretty soon you’re meeting a GitHub celebrity.” (GitHub, a user-generated online repository for sharing computer code, is like a Wikipedia for software.) At TreeHacks, a team of Apple engineers was on hand to mentor students at all hours of the night.
为了培养出一种教育第一的赛事精神，大学黑客松鼓励学生们随意折腾新的软件和硬件，挑战自我，也鼓励他们相互指导。“那里有一位几乎熟知所有情况的专家，”曾任MHacks负责人的戴夫·方特诺特(Dave Fontenot)说，“如果你去问他最好的JavaScript开发人员是谁，很快你就会见到一名GitHub上的名人。”（GitHub是一个用来共享计算机代码的用户生成在线资料库，就像是软件领域的维基百科一样）TreeHacks上就有一队苹果公司的工程师在场，整晚整晚地指导学生。
Many attendees say they acquire practical skills that college courses fail to teach, and gain technical proficiency at a much faster pace.
许多参赛者都表示，他们能从中学到大学课程无法教给他们的实用技巧，以一种快得多的步调掌握技术方面的专业知识。
“Hackathons are like gyms,” Mr. Fontenot says. “If you never go to the gym, you’re never going to get big.”
“黑客松就像健身房，”方特诺特说道，“如果你从来不去健身房，那你永远都练不出好身材。”
These days, it pays to develop big muscles. In one iconic scene in the Oscar-winning film “The Social Network,” Mark Zuckerberg hosts a hackathon among five students in his Harvard dorm room. The winner earns an internship at his start-up, Facebook.
现如今，练出结实的肌肉是有好处拿的。在奥斯卡获奖影片《社交网络》(Social Network)的一个标志性场景中，马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)便在自己在哈佛大学的宿舍里，主办了一场5名学生之间的黑客松。胜出者可以赢得到他的创业公司Facebook实习的机会。
Collegiate hackathons have replicated that scene on a far grander scale. Identifying talented coders who can dream big and thrive under pressure is particularly valuable to Silicon Valley. Since hackathons showcase some of the best, brightest and most motivated upstart programmers, the events have become a focal point for recruiting. Some say hackathons are as fruitful as job fairs.
大学黑客松完全重现了这一场面，但是规模要远为壮观得多。找出那些志向远大又能在压力中茁壮成长的优秀编程人员，对硅谷格外有价值。由于黑客松呈现出的都是些最出色，最聪明，也最有上进心的编程界新秀，这场盛事已经成了企业广纳英才的一块重地所在。有的人说，黑客松简直就和招聘会一样收获满满。
“We want to find the next Mark Zuckerberg and the next Jack Dorsey,” says Andy Chen, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm that invested in Uber, Google, Snapchat and Twitter, which Mr. Dorsey helped found. The firm sends representatives to at least 20 collegiate competitions each year.
“我们想要找到下一个马克·扎克伯格和下一个杰克·多尔西(Jack Dorsey)，”凯鹏华盈(Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers)合伙人安迪·陈(Andy Chen，音译)如此表示。他所在的这家风险资本机构先后投资了优步、谷歌(Google)、Snapchat，还有多尔西先生联合创办的推特(Twitter)。该机构每年都要派人前往至少20场大学黑客松的现场。
“I strongly believe that the best talent are at these opt-in courses called hackathons,” Mr. Chen says, adding that they are essential for any student pursuing a career in tech. “If you’re not at a hackathon, you’re at a disadvantage. What you learn in class isn’t necessarily as applicable to the work force.”
“我坚信，最好的人才就在黑客松这门由学生们自愿修读的‘课程’里，”陈先生说，接着又说，这门“选修课”对于任何一名想要在科技界发展事业的学生而言，都是至关重要、不可或缺的。“如果你不在黑客松的现场，就会居于下风。你在课堂上学到的东西，并不见得适用于职场。”
Seeing which students can thrive in a chaotic environment akin to nascent start-ups is a boon to recruiters. Likewise, students say hackathons are an ideal way to test-drive the experience of working at a start-up before committing to a job.
如果发现了哪名学生有能力在类似于初建创业公司的混乱环境中茁壮成长，对招聘方来说简直就是老天赐福。同样的，学生们也说，黑客松是在签下一份工作前，先体验一番在初创公司工作是什么感觉的理想渠道。
But finding talent is only part of the appeal for venture capitalists. Brian Pokorny, a partner at SV Angel, which invested in Foursquare, Zappos and Airbnb, says the events help them spot emerging tech developments. Specifically, he points to the recent rise in the number of virtual reality projects from just a few years ago, when more students were building social media apps in the vein of Instagram or WhatsApp. “The students,” Mr. Pokorny says, “are almost like crystal balls for the future.”
但是寻找人才仅是风投资本家们的诸多诉求之一。布莱恩·波科尔尼(Brian Pokorny)是硅谷天使投资基金(SV Angel)的合伙人之一，该机构先后投资了Foursquare、Zappos和Airbnb。他表示，这些活动能帮助他们捕捉最新的科技发展方向。他特别提到，涉及虚拟现实的项目现在变得越来越多，而就在短短几年前，有更多学生都是在开发承继Instagram或WhatsApp血脉的社交媒体应用。“这些学生，”波科尔尼先生说道，“几乎就像是预知未来的水晶球一样。”
At last January’s HackTech, hosted by the University of California, Los Angeles, and the California Institute of Technology, a 17-year-old named Ash Bhat proudly announced via Twitter that his hackathon project would top Snapchat, the messaging app. Snapchat had just released a new API, the back-end protocols and code that allow developers to build other software applications. Mr. Bhat realized he could “break the Captcha.”
去年1月份，由加州大学洛杉矶分校和加州理工学院联合主办的HackTech上，一名叫作阿什·哈特(Ash Bhat)的17岁少年通过推特自豪地宣称，他的黑客松项目将会全面碾压消息应用Snapchat。当时Snapchat刚刚发布了新的API，这套后端协议和代码可被开发人员用于创建其他软件应用。哈特先生意识到，他可以“攻破验证码”。
“.@snapchat is outdated, we’re going to show that it’s flawed and are going to release a competitor. all in 36 hours,” tweeted Mr. Bhat at 2:53 a.m.
“.@snapchat 已经过时了，我们将让大家看到它是有缺陷的，还会发布一款它的竞品应用。就在36个小时后。”哈特先生在凌晨2点53分时发的一条推文上如此写道。
He and three others proceeded to code a workaround for sending messages to all of Snapchat’s 4.6 million users (this is not a feature Snapchat permits). Less than 12 hours later, to Mr. Bhat’s amazement, Snapchat’s chief executive, Evan Spiegel, 24, was standing in front of him at the hackathon, which was held in Santa Monica, not far from Snapchat’s offices in Venice. Mr. Spiegel asked to see the hack and Mr. Bhat obliged.
他和另外三名队友着手编写了一项临时应用，可用来向Snapchat所有的460亿用户发送信息（该功能在Snapchat中是被禁止的）。不到12个小时后，出乎哈特先生的意料，Snapchat的首席执行官，当时24岁的埃文·斯皮格(Evan Spiegel)，就出现在这场黑客松的现场――距离Snapchat威尼斯总部不远的圣塔莫妮卡，站到了他的面前。斯皮格先生提出想看看他的攻击程序，哈特先生首肯了。
“It was a little tense,” Mr. Bhat confesses now. “We thought they were going to take legal action.” (They didn’t.)
“当时气氛有点紧张，”哈特先生如今如此坦白道，“我们还以为他们打算采取法律行动。”（他们并没有这么做。）
The day after the impromptu meeting, Mr. Bhat had dinner with the three founders of Tinder, the popular dating app. They gave him their recruiting spiel, he says.
就在这场临时会面的次日，哈特先生与当红约会应用Tinder的三位创始人共进了晚餐。他说，他们三人对他进行了一番招聘宣讲。
“Hackathons have been a real door opener,” says Mr. Bhat, who left high school soon after to become a founder of 1StudentBody, which builds apps for student communities. “My parents were going ballistic, like, ‘What the hell are you doing?!’ ”
“黑客松一直是块真真正正的敲门砖，”哈特先生说，他在不久后便离开了在读的高中，变成了1StudentBody的创始人，专为学生团体开发应用。“我的父母整个抓狂了，就觉得，‘你这是在搞些什么鬼东西？！’”
Therein lies a paradox. These events, held on university campuses in university buildings, are perpetuating one of the more controversial tenets of Silicon Valley: Attending college is no longer a necessity.
这当中存在着一个悖论。这些在大学校园的教学楼里举办的活动，却始终维护着硅谷众多褒贬不一的信条之一：上大学不再是个必须项。
“A lot of my friends are dropping out just to pursue their own ideas, and recruiting friends to drop out to pursue those ideas,” says Evadora de Zhengia, a sophomore at the University of California, Berkeley, who is a director of Cal Hacks. “I can name off the top of my head at least 10 dropouts. There’s a lot more incentive to take a break from school for a semester and see where it takes them.”
“我有许多朋友都为了追求自己的想法而退学，然后又去召集那些愿意退学来追求这些想法的朋友。”担任Cal Hacks负责人的加州大学伯克利分校二年级学生伊娃诺拉·德甄吉雅(Evadora de Zhengia)说，“我能从自己的脑子里翻出至少10名休学生的名字来。外面有太多的诱惑力，吸引着他们休学一个学期，看看自己能走到一条什么样的路上去。”
The Thiel Fellowship — $100,000 awarded by the tech entrepreneur Peter Thiel to students who forgo college to pursue their own start-ups — frequently sends reps to hackathons to pass out pamphlets and buttons with the Thiel logo.
泰尔奖学金(Thiel Fellowship)由创业家彼得·泰尔(Peter Thiel)向那些放弃大学学业实现个人创业梦想的学生提供，金额为10万美元。这家奖学金经常派遣代表到黑客松现场，分发印有泰尔标识的宣传册和徽章。
“We’re not there to snipe people out of school,” says Danielle Strachmann, program director of the fellowship, adding that she lets students lead the discussion. “We’re willing to have these hard conversations with them about what they’re looking to do and what we can do to help them. Having a degree used to be your ticket to a job, but now maybe it’s just going to a hackathon.”
“我们不是来从学校里挖人的，”该奖学金的项目总监丹妮尔·斯特罗曼(Danielle Strachmann)说，还说她会把讨论的主导权交给学生，“我们很愿意与他们探讨这些艰难的话题，聊聊他们想要做什么，我们又能怎么帮到他们。拥有大学文凭向来是拿到一份工作的通行证，但在如今，或许只是张通往黑客松的通行证罢了。”
Some participants are not even enrolled in college. At least 26 coders at TreeHacks attend high school. Last year at HackTech, 20 percent of the programmers were high school students. These younger participants are not just crashing collegiate hackathons; some are spinning off their projects into start-ups and moneymaking apps.
部分参赛者甚至还没进大学。TreeHacks上至少有26名编程人员还在上高中。去年的HackTech上，有20%的程序员都是高中生。这些年轻的参赛者们不仅仅是攻占大学黑客松的阵地这么简单；其中一些人还顺便把自己的项目发展成了创业公司和赚钱的应用。
“The hackathon is sort of the beginning,” says Veeral Patel, 17, who helped build a best-selling iPhone app called Workflow at MHacks last year. Workflow won the $5,000 prize — at the time, three of its four engineers were still in high school, including Mr. Patel. Three months later, two of Workflow’s developers — Ari Weinstein, then an M.I.T. freshman, and Conrad Kramer, then a high school senior admitted to M.I.T. ­— were both accepted into the Thiel Fellowship, which allowed them to continue developing their team’s project.
“黑客松算是某种起点，”17岁的威瑞尔·帕特尔(Veeral Patel)说，他在去年的MHacks上，和人联手创建了一款名为Workflow的畅销iPhone应用。Workflow赢得了5,000美元的奖金――在当时，开发这款应用的四名工程师中，有三名都还在上高中，帕特尔也是其中一员。三个月后，Workflow的其中两名开发人员――当时刚刚考上麻省理工学院的阿里·韦恩斯坦(Ari Weinstein)和当时已经被麻省理工学院录取的高三学生康纳德·克莱默(Conrad Kramer)――双双被泰尔奖学金选中，让他们有能力继续发展团队的项目。
“I’m kind of bummed ’cause I couldn’t work on it as much as I wanted because of homework and college applications,” says Mr. Patel, who has been admitted to Stanford, which gives students the option to defer.
“我多少有些烦恼，因为学校作业和大学申请事宜的缘故，让我没法如我所愿地全心投入项目的开发中，”帕特尔先生说，目前他已经接到了斯坦福大学的录取通知书，该校允许学生延期入学。
Some universities cater to the kinds of students who participate in hackathons, either by allowing a gap year or providing opportunities for less structured learning and coding.
一些大学也特意迎合这类参加黑客松的学生们的需要，要么允许他们休学一年，要么让他们可以少参加些系统性的课程和编程作业。
“Students need this kind of space all the time, not just at hackathons,” says Stacey Sickels Locke, senior director of development at the University of Maryland, which is building a lab for engineering students to experiment with virtual reality hardware and software.
“学生们随时都需要这样的空间，而不仅仅是在黑客松期间，”斯泰西·斯科尔斯·洛克(Stacey Sickels Locke)说，她是马里兰大学的高级开发主管，该校正在设立一间实验室，供工程系学生试验虚拟现实的硬件设备和软件应用。
The initiative is a result of a $31 million donation by Brendan Iribe, chief executive of Oculus VR, the virtual reality start-up acquired by Facebook last year for $2 billion.
这项计划缘起于Oculus VR首席执行官布兰登·艾里布(Brendan Iribe)捐赠的一笔3,100万美元的捐款，这家虚拟现实初创公司在去年被Facebook以20亿美元的价格收购。
Mr. Iribe, who dropped out of Maryland during his freshman year, decided to make his donation, the largest in the university’s history, after attending its hackathon. He was depressed by the computer science facilities but impressed by the Bitcamp energy. Mr. Iribe has said he believes students should finish college, not follow in his footsteps.
艾里布先生在马里兰大学念大一时就退学了。他在参加了马里兰大学的黑客松后，便决定捐出这笔款项，这是该校有史以来接收到的金额最大的一笔捐款。他对计算机科学系的设施十分失望，但却为Bitcamp的活力而惊艳。艾里布先生曾说，他认为学生应该完成大学学业，不要追随他的脚步。