Helen Keller lost her sight and hearing 18 months after she was born. She had not learned how to speak and was plunged into what she called “the unconsciousness of a newborn baby,” an isolated and seemingly inescapable prison.
出生18个月后，海伦·凯勒(Helen Keller)失去了视力和听力。还没学会说话的凯勒，陷入了她所说的“新生儿般的无意识状态”，就像一个与外隔绝、看不到出路的牢笼。
But by the time Ms. Keller died at 87, on June 1, 1968, she had persevered. Her front-page obituary said that “she could ‘see’ and ‘hear’ with exceptional acuity; she even learned to talk passably and to dance in time to a fox trot or a waltz.”
但直到1968年6月1日以87岁的高龄去世之前，凯勒一直在坚持。刊登在头版的讣告称，“她能够异常敏锐地‘看’和‘听’；她甚至学会了说话，说得还可以，并且学会了跟随狐步舞曲或华尔兹舞曲的节奏跳舞。”
Ms. Keller learned to communicate with the help of Anne Sullivan Macy, a teacher who virtually transformed her from a near-feral child into a Radcliffe graduate. Ms. Keller became a captivating writer, chronicling her life in memoirs, and a kind of motivational speaker, aided by Ms. Sullivan onstage. She also was an advocate for the blind and toured the country with Ms. Sullivan as part of a vaudeville act, befriending celebrities like Charlie Chaplin, Enrico Caruso and Harpo Marx.
凯勒是在安·沙利文·梅西(Anne Sullivan Macy)的帮助下学习交流技能的。作为老师，沙利文实际上把凯勒从一个近乎野性的孩子变成了拉德克利夫学院(Radcliffe College)的毕业生。凯勒成了一位令人着迷的作家，用回忆录记载了自己的人生。在沙利文的协助下，她还成了某种励志演说家。她是盲人权益的倡导者，和沙利文一起以一种演艺团体的形式在全美巡回演出，与查理·卓别林(Charlie Chaplin)、恩里科·卡鲁索(Enrico Caruso)和哈勃·马克斯(Harpo Marx)等名人成了朋友。
“I seldom think about my limitations, and they never make me sad. Perhaps there is a touch of yearning at times, but it is vague, like a breeze among flowers. The wind passes, and the flowers are content.”
“我很少想我的缺陷，它们从来不会让我感到伤心。或许有时候会有一丝向往，但很轻微，就像微风吹过花丛一样。风过后，花朵心满意足。”
Her accomplishments were dramatized in William Gibson’s “The Miracle Worker”, which debuted on Broadway directed by Arthur Penn in 1959 and starred Anne Bancroft as Ms. Sullivan and Patty Duke as Ms. Keller. (Ms. Duke died in March.) The show ran for more than 700 performances, and the actresses reprised their roles in the 1962 film version (below), for which they both won Academy Awards.
凯勒的成就被威廉·吉布森(William Gibson)改编成了剧本《奇迹缔造者》(The Miracle Worker)，1959年由阿瑟·佩恩(Arthur Penn)执导在百老汇首演，由安·班克罗夫特(Anne Bancroft)和帕蒂·杜克(Patty Duke)分别饰演沙利文和凯勒。（杜克于今年3月去世。）该剧演了700多场。在1962年的电影版中，两位演员再度出演，并双双获得奥斯卡奖。
Ms. Keller’s achievements and indomitable spirit helped alter public perceptions of disabled people, showing them as overcoming obstacles rather than as inviting only pity. A foundation named after her in 1915 continues to provide treatment for diseases that cause blindness and visual impairment.
凯勒的成就和顽强不屈的精神帮助改变了公众对残疾人的认知，表明残疾人会克服障碍，而不是一味博取同情。一个成立于1915年并以她的名字命名的基金会，现在仍在为造成听力和视力受损的疾病提供治疗。
In 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson presented Ms. Keller with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, honoring her as a model of courage and determination.
1964年，林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)总统授予凯勒“总统自由勋章”，表彰她的勇敢和决心。