The big news about Björk’s ninth studio album, “Vulnicura,” shouldn’t be the fact that she released it suddenly online, two months before its planned appearance, in response to having it leaked prematurely. It should be that in her latest songs, Björk leads as much with her heart as her brain.
因曲目遭到提前泄露，比约克(Björk)突然在网上发布了自己的第九张录音室专辑《Vulnicura》，比实体唱片的预定发行日期早了两个月，然而这不应该是关于这张专辑的新闻点。新闻点应该是，在她最新的这些歌曲里，她用头脑歌唱，同样也用心灵去歌唱。
“Biophilia,” the album-and-apps package she released in 2011, was a grandly cerebral edifice of cross-mapped concepts: music, science, pedagogy and technology, from the mechanical to the virtual. “Vulnicura” has intellectual parameters of its own. The songs conceal or completely disregard the signposts of pop, and they linger in dissonance and ambiguous tonality. Throughout the album, Björk uses a severely circumscribed palette: just string orchestra, electronics and voices. But it’s not the musical complexities that register most immediately: It’s the sorrow, anger and tenacity. The album cover shows her encased in shiny black with an open wound in her chest.
2011年，她发布了专辑兼app《热爱生命》(Biophilia)，受到普遍好评，它是各种概念的综合体：音乐、科学、教育学与技术，从手工操作到虚拟操作。而这张《Vulnicura》则有自己的智力因素。专辑中的歌曲隐藏或者完全无视了流行乐的特征，在不和谐音与模糊的音调之间徘徊。在整张专辑中，比约克使用了严格限定的音乐手法：只有弦乐乐队、电子乐和人声。但是立即给人留下印象的并不是音乐的复杂性：而是音乐中的悲伤、愤怒与坚韧。封面上，她身穿闪亮的黑色紧身衣，胸前有一个敞开的伤口。
On Facebook, Björk called “Vulnicura” “a complete heartbreak album.” (It reflects her breakup with the artist and filmmaker Matthew Barney, with whom she had a daughter, Isadora, in 2002.) The lyrics booklet dates the first six songs chronologically, from “9 months before” to “11 months after.” The lyrics trace estrangement, bitter separation and resolve. They seesaw between the analytical — “Moments of clarity are so rare/I better document this,” in “Stonemilker” — and the raw: “My soul torn apart, my spirit is broken,” in “Black Lake.”
在Facebook上，比约克说《Vulnicura》“完全是一张心碎的专辑”。这指的是她和艺术家兼电影制作人马修·巴尼(Matthew Barney)的分手，两人有一个女儿伊莎多拉(Isadora)，于2002年出生。歌词本为专辑的前六首歌标出了时间顺序，从“9个月之前”到“11个月之后”。歌词追溯了疏远、悲哀的分居与决心，在分析（“清晰的时刻非常罕见，最好记下来”，《在石头中挤奶的人》[Stonemilker]）与痛苦（“我的灵魂四分五裂”，《黑湖》[Black Lake]）之间摇摆。
It’s an album of ballads, some of them extraordinarily slow, built around Björk’s declamatory melodies; there are verses and choruses in there. But the music rarely supports her in any typical sense. “Stonemilker” and “Lionsong,” which open the album, are the closest thing to Björk’s previous recordings, using elegiac strings and twitchy electronics. From there, the tracks are more likely to envelop her, abandon her, destabilize her or battle her. “History of Touches,” a last-chance love song, uses only watery synthesizer chords with their own, separate pulse, like someone else’s breathing. They’re programmed by Björk’s co-producer for much of the album, Arca.
这是一张充满伤感歌曲的专辑，有些特别缓慢，围绕着比约克演说般的旋律；有一些诗歌与合唱。但音乐很少以普通的方式为她伴奏。专辑的前两首歌曲《在石头中挤奶的人》和《狮子之歌》(Lionsong) 使用伤感的弦乐和焦躁的电子乐，最接近比约克之前的歌曲。从那之后，歌曲就更像是把她推向边界、抛弃她、使她动摇，与她作战。《抚摸的历史》是关于最后机会的情歌，只用了水流般的合成器和弦，带有自身单独的脉动，很像另一个人的呼吸声，该曲由阿尔卡(Arca)编写，他在这张专辑的大部分歌曲中充当了比约克的合作制作人。
In the 10-minute “Black Lake,” the strings offer austerely distant counterpoint and, at times, long-sustained chords that conjure stretches of unbearable solitude; march and dance beats heave up at times, then disappear. For the first three minutes of “Family,” as an increasingly agitated Björk asks, “Where do I go to make an offering/to mourn our miraculous triangle/father mother child,” her voice hovers over unpredictable thuds and an inexorably swelling cloud of dissonant strings and electronics, an almost unbearable tension. “There is a swarm of sound around our heads,” she sings later in the song. “Notget,” which insists “Don’t remove my pain, it is my chance to heal,” pushes against her voice with electronics that hint at Asian tunings and then with insistently jabbing strings.
在10分钟的《黑湖》中，弦乐提供了质朴的远距离旋律配合，偶尔会有持久的和弦，让人体会到到难以忍受的阵阵孤独之感；有时也会浮现出进行曲与舞蹈的节奏，之后就消失不见。《家庭》的前三分钟里，比约克愈来愈不安地发问：“我该到哪儿去提条件/去哀悼我们奇迹般的三人关系/父亲，母亲与孩子”，她的声音盘旋在无法预测的重击之上，不和谐的弦乐与电子乐像无情的阴云一样聚拢着，营造出几乎令人无法忍受的紧张气氛。这首歌后面还有这样的歌词：“有一大片声音簇拥在我们的脑海。” 在《没有得到》(Notget)里，她坚持：“不要去除我的痛苦，它是我获得治愈的机会”，她的声音反衬着含有亚洲风格的电子乐，然后进入持续猛烈的弦乐。
“Atom Dance” has a science metaphor that could have come from “Biophilia”: “We are each other’s hemispheres,” Björk sings, joined in staggered counterpoint by Antony Hegarty of Antony and the Johnsons. At first it’s almost decorous, repeating a five-note pizzicato figure; then it’s buffeted by flurries of percussion and string trills. “Mouth Mantra,” in which Björk sings about being silenced, starts out waltzing but goes haywire with ghostly voices and dizzying electronic crossfire. And “Quicksand” concludes the album with the sentiment, “When we’re broken we are whole/And when we’re whole we’re broken.” It doesn’t provide any kind of resting point; the strings circle through unresolved chords and the rhythm, hinting at breakbeats, jitters and races ahead.
《原子之舞》(Atom Dance)是一个科学隐喻，可能是来自《热爱生命》：“我们是彼此的半球”，比约克唱道，“安东尼与约翰逊”(Antony and the Johnsons)的安东尼·赫加蒂(Antony Hegarty)为她伴奏。这首歌一开始几乎是厚重的，重复了一段五音符的拨奏曲，然后陷入打击乐的爆发与弦乐的颤抖之中。在《嘴之咒语》(Mouth Mantra)中，比约克歌唱沉默，一开始是华尔兹的节奏，但很快陷入鬼魂般的人声与令人晕眩的电子乐营造出的疯狂。《流沙》(Quicksand)一曲以这样的情绪为专辑收尾：“当我们分离时我们是完整的/当我们完整时我们是分离的”。它并没有提供任何安慰，弦乐在悬而未决的和弦与节奏之间循环，暗示着前方的碎拍、紧张与速度。