Rachel Crosby speaks about her BlackBerry phone the way someone might speak of an embarrassing relative.
蕾切尔·克罗斯比(Rachel Crosby)说起自己的黑莓(BlackBerry)手机时的语气，就像人们提到自己令人尴尬的亲戚一样。
“I’m ashamed of it,” said Ms. Crosby, a Los Angeles sales representative who said she had stopped pulling out her BlackBerry at cocktail parties and conferences. In meetings, she says she hides her BlackBerry beneath her iPad for fear clients will see it and judge her.
“我以它为耻，”克罗斯比是一位洛杉矶的销售代表，她说自己参加鸡尾酒会和会议时，已不再掏出黑莓手机。她还说，在开会时，因为害怕客户看见她的黑莓手机，并以此评判她，她会把黑莓手机藏在iPad下面。
The BlackBerry was once proudly carried by the high-powered and the elite, but those who still hold one today say the device has become a magnet for mockery and derision from those with iPhones and the latest Android phones. Research in Motion may still be successful selling BlackBerrys in countries like India and Indonesia, but in the United States the company is clinging to less than 5 percent of the smartphone market — down from a dominating 50 percent just three years ago. The company’s future all depends on a much-delayed new phone coming next year; meanwhile RIM recorded a net loss of $753 million in the first half of the year compared with a profit of more than $1 billion a year earlier.
位高权重的人物和精英们一度以身携黑莓手机为傲，然而，那些今日依然拥有黑莓的用户们表示，它已成为一个笑柄，引来iPhone用户以及最新款Andriod手机用户的嘲弄和耻笑。移动研究公司（Research in Motion，简称RIM）也许仍在印度和印度尼西亚等国家成功地销售黑莓手机，但在美国，该公司在智能手机市场的占有率从三年前占统治地位的50%下跌到现在的不足5%。公司的未来完全依赖一款新手机，这款推迟已久的新手机将于明年发布；与此同时，RIM今年上半年净亏损7.53亿美元（约合47.5亿元人民币），而去年同期盈利逾10亿美元（约合63亿元人民币）。
Among the latest signs of the loss of cachet: One of the first steps Marissa Mayer took as Yahoo’s newly appointed chief executive to remake the company’s stodgy image was to trade in employees’ BlackBerrys for iPhones and Androids. BlackBerrys may still linger in Washington, Wall Street and the legal profession, but in Silicon Valley they are as rare as a necktie.
黑莓丧失威望的最新迹象之一是：雅虎(Yahoo)新任首席执行官玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)上任后打破公司古板形象的首批步骤之一，就是让员工以旧换新，把黑莓手机更换成iPhone或者Android手机。黑莓也许仍在华盛顿、华尔街和法律界大量存在，但在硅谷，它们就像领带一样罕见。
As the list shrinks of friends who once regularly communicated using BlackBerry’s private messaging service, called BBM, many a BlackBerry owner will not mince words about how they feel about their phone.
随着曾经常使用黑莓自带的BBM即时通讯服务聊天的朋友越来越少，许多用户毫不讳言他们对黑莓手机的感觉。
“I want to take a bat to it,” Ms. Crosby said, after waiting for her phone’s browser to load for the third minute, only to watch the battery die. “You can’t do anything with it. You’re supposed to, but it’s all a big lie.”
“我想用球棒把它给砸了，”克罗斯比说。她花了三分钟等着手机的浏览器上线，却发现电池耗尽了。“它什么也干不了。这些功能应该都能用的，可一切都是一个大谎言。”
The cultural divide between BlackBerry loyalists and everyone else has only grown more extreme over the last year as companies that previously issued employees BlackBerrys — and only BlackBerrys — have started surrendering to employee demands for iPhones and Android-powered smartphones.
过去一年里，黑莓忠诚用户和其他人之间的文化分歧变得愈发极端。原本向员工发放黑莓手机（包括只发放黑莓手机）的公司，开始向要求iPhone和Android智能手机的员工让步。
Goldman Sachs recently gave its employees the option to use an iPhone. Covington & Burling, a major law firm, did the same at the urging of associates. Even the White House, which used the BlackBerry for security reasons, recently started supporting the iPhone. (Some staff members suspect that decision was influenced by President Obama, who now prefers his iPad for national security briefings. A spokesman for the White House declined to comment.)
最近，高盛(Goldman Sachs)向员工提供了使用iPhone的选择。大型律所科文顿-柏灵(Covington & Burling)在合伙人的敦促之下，也采取了同样的做法。就连以往出于安全考虑使用黑莓的白宫，最近也开始支持iPhone。（一些幕僚怀疑，这项决定受到了奥巴马总统的影响。他现在喜欢用iPad 浏览国家安全简报。一位白宫发言人拒绝置评。）
Out in the world, the insults continue. Victoria Gossage, a 28-year-old hedge fund marketer, said she recently attended a work retreat at Piping Rock Club, an upscale country club in Locust Valley, N.Y., and asked the concierge for a phone charger. “First he said, ‘Sure.’ Then he saw my phone and — in this disgusted tone — said, ‘Oh no, no, not for that.’ ”
在社会各界，黑莓用户继续蒙受耻辱。28岁的对冲基金营销人员维多利亚·戈西奇(Victoria Gossage)说，她最近到纽约蝗虫谷的高档乡村俱乐部——Piping摇滚俱乐部参加一个休闲聚会。她向那里的服务台要手机充电器。“对方一开始说，‘当然’，然后他看见了我的手机，就用厌烦的语气说，‘噢，不、不，这种手机可不行’。”
“You get used to that kind of rejection,” she said.
“我对这种拒绝已经习以为常了，”她说。
BlackBerry outcasts say that, increasingly, they suffer from shame and public humiliation as they watch their counterparts mingle on social networking apps that are not available to them, take higher-resolution photos, and effortlessly navigate streets — and the Internet — with better GPS and faster browsing. More indignity comes in having to outsource tasks like getting directions, booking travel, making restaurant reservations and looking up sports scores to their exasperated iPhone and Android-carting partners, friends and colleagues.
被遗弃的黑莓用户说，眼看其他手机用户使用他们无法企及的社交应用程序交往，拍摄更高清晰度的照片，利用更优越的全球定位系统(GPS)和更快的浏览器轻松地在街上和网络世界里畅游，他们日益感到难堪和羞辱。更有损尊严的是，他们不得不在很多事上求助于不耐烦的配备iPhone或Android手机的伴侣、友人和同事，如问路、预订旅行、餐厅订座和查询比赛结果。
“I feel absolutely helpless,” said Ms. Gossage. “You’re constantly watching people do all these things on their phones and all I have going for me is my family’s group BBM chats.”
“我感觉自己无助极了，”戈西奇说，“你不断见到人们用手机干这干那，而我能做的，就是用BBM和我的家人聊天。”
Still, a few BlackBerry users say they’re sticking with the device, mainly because of the BlackBerry’s efficient, physical keyboard. “I use my BlackBerry by choice,” said Lance Fenton, a 32-year-old investor who frequently travels and needs to send e-mails from the road. “I can’t type e-mails on touch-screen phones.”
尽管如此，依然有很多黑莓用户表示，他们将继续使用黑莓手机，主要是因为黑莓有高效率的实体键盘。“我选择使用黑莓，”32岁的投资人兰斯·芬顿(Lance Fenton)说。经常出差的他需要在旅行途中发送电子邮件。他说，“我无法在触摸屏手机上打字，输入电子邮件内容。”
In a recent promotional video, Alec Saunders, RIM’s vice president for developer relations, is shown belting out a rock song titled “Devs, BlackBerry Is Going to Keep on Loving You,” a riff on the 1981 power ballad by REO Speedwagon “Keep on Loving You.”
最近的一段宣传视频显示RIM开发者关系副总裁亚力克·桑德斯(Alec Saunders)引吭高歌，演唱一曲名为“开发者，黑莓将继续深爱你”的摇滚歌曲，它是快速马车合唱团(REO Speedwagon)1981年演唱的力量民谣“继续深爱你”的即兴模仿版本。
“This is the sign of a desperate company,” said Nick Mindel, a 26-year-old investment analyst. “Come on, BlackBerry, I always had some faith, but you just lost a customer. Frankly, I don’t think they can afford to lose many more.”
“这是一家绝望公司的标志，”26岁的投资分析师尼克·明德尔(Nick Mindel)说，“算了吧，黑莓，我过去一直对你有一些信心，但你刚刚又失去了一个用户。坦白地说，我认为，他们再也无法承担失去更多用户的后果了。”