OTTAWA — An offer to take BlackBerry private does not end the uncertainty surrounding the ailing smartphone maker.
渥太华——有人愿意出资将黑莓公司(BlackBerry)私有化，但这并未终结笼罩在这家深陷逆境的智能手机生产商周围的不确定性。
BlackBerry said on Monday that it had signed a letter of intent from a group led by Fairfax Financial Holdings, a Canadian insurance and investment company, to pay shareholders $9 a share in cash, pending a variety of conditions, taking the company private.
周一，黑莓宣布，已经与以加拿大保险和投资企业枫信金融控股公司(Fairfax Financial Holdings)为首的财团签署了意向书，将以现金形式，以每股9美元（约合55元人民币）的价格收购黑莓股东的股票，让黑莓公司退市。收购的若干项条件尚未确定。
The $4.7 billion offer from Fairfax, which already owns about 10 percent of BlackBerry, is a powerful symbol of the phone maker’s decline. In June 2008 — a time when BlackBerrys defined smartphones — the company had a stock market value of $83 billion.
枫信本已拥有黑莓大约10%的股份。以该公司为首的财团愿出资47亿美元收购黑莓，这突出地体现了黑莓的衰落。2008年6月，这家手机生产商的市值高达830亿美元，那时黑莓设备几乎就是智能手机的代名词。
Any deal is far from done. Fairfax did not identify the other investors in its consortium, which is seeking financing. And while the offer could flush out potential rival suitors, it is unclear who might be tempted to come forward, given the company’s uncertain prospects. Investors gave a muted endorsement on Monday, with BlackBerry shares rising 1 percent, to $8.82, but failing to reach the $9 bid price.
交易还远远没有完成。这个财团正在寻求融资，枫信没有透露其他投资方的身份。而且，尽管枫信的收购意向可能会将有意收购黑莓的潜在买家吸引出来，但考虑到黑莓前景不确定，并不清楚谁可能会受到吸引，参与竞购。周一，投资者对这一消息的认可并不强烈，黑莓股价上扬1%，涨至8.82美元，未能达到枫信9美元的出价。
The offer came after the company announced on Friday that it expected to report a quarterly loss of nearly $1 billion, stemming largely from the failure of the BlackBerry 10 line of phones that were supposed to revive the company. BlackBerry also outlined plans to lay off about 40 percent of its already reduced work force, or around 4,500 people.
在枫信发出收购要约之前，黑莓上周五刚刚宣布，预计将披露上季度亏损近10亿美元，损失主要源自黑莓10系列手机的失败。黑莓公司本以为这款手机能让公司重振旗鼓。同时，黑莓公司还简要说明了再裁员约40%的计划，涉及大约4500人。黑莓此前就已经削减了员工规模。
Sensing the opportunity to halt the fall in company’s stock prompted by that announcement, and the potential to kick off an auction, BlackBerry’s board seized on the offer, quickly signing a letter of intent. The particulars of the deal’s announcement came together in a matter of hours Monday morning.
意识到这是一个机会，可能会阻止上述声明发布后公司股价的下跌，而且还可能会引来其他买家的竞购，黑莓董事会立刻针对枫信发出的收购要约签署了意向书。周一上午，在几个小时之内，黑莓就敲定了交易声明的细节。
V. Prem Watsa, Fairfax’s chairman and chief executive, told shareholders in March that the company paid an average price of $17 for its BlackBerry shares, giving him an obvious interest in at least stalling the slide in BlackBerry’s shares.
今年3月，枫信董事长兼首席执行官V·普利姆·沃特萨(V. Prem Watsa)告诉股东，枫信买入黑莓股票的平均价格是每股17美元。有鉴于此，他显然有意去至少阻止黑莓股价下跌。
Yet not only are there questions about the offer, several analysts say it is not clear how the Fairfax group could stem BlackBerry’s rapid decline or stabilize the company.
然而，不仅收购要约本身尚有疑问，几名分析人士称，也并不清楚枫信领衔的财团能够以何种方式抑制黑莓的迅速衰落，让公司稳定下来。
“Last week was essentially an announcement that they are leaving the handset business,” said Jan Dawson, a telecommunications analyst with Ovum. “But pick any market they’re trying to go into and there are strong, entrenched competitors.”
“实质上，上周的声明是在说，他们要放弃手机业务，”Ovum公司电信行业分析师简·道森(Jan Dawson)说，“但在黑莓试图进军的所有市场里，他们都会遭遇已站稳脚跟的强大竞争对手。”
Given the high risk involved in investing in BlackBerry, one of the most pressing questions surrounding the deal is the identity of anyone prepared to invest in the company alongside Fairfax. One possible clue came from the fact that Byron D. Trott, the banker used by Warren E. Buffett, was advising Fairfax. Mr. Trott and his firm, BDT & Company, often work with wealthy private investors.
考虑到投资黑莓涉及的高风险，围绕这笔交易最紧迫的问题之一就是，准备与枫信一道投资黑莓的其他投资者的身份。为沃伦·E·巴菲特(Warren E. Buffett)服务的银行家拜伦·D·特罗特(Byron D. Trott)为枫信充当了顾问。这个事实可能会带出一条线索。特罗特和他领导的BDT公司(BDT & Company)经常和富有的私人投资者合作。
Mike Lazaridis, the co-founder of BlackBerry who stepped down as co-chief executive in 2012, has been interested in making an offer with private equity investors, people familiar with the situation said. That led to speculation on Monday that he might join the Fairfax group.
熟悉情况的人士透露，2012年卸任联合首席执行官的黑莓联合创始人麦克·拉扎里迪斯(Mike Lazaridis)一直都对与私募股权投资者联合发布要约很感兴趣。这在周一引发了他可能会加入枫信领导的财团的猜测。
Through a spokesman, Mr. Lazaridis declined to comment. Neither Fairfax nor Mr. Watsa responded to requests for comment.
拉扎里迪斯通过发言人表示不愿置评，枫信和沃特萨均未回复置评请求。
Just as unclear is how a buyout would be financed. Fairfax did not say how much cash it was prepared to put toward the deal, or how much debt it might expect BlackBerry to take on in a buyout. BlackBerry is largely debt-free and had about $2.6 billion in cash at the end of the last quarter, leaving just a couple of billion dollars needed to conceivably strike an acquisition.
如何为收购黑莓的交易融资也同样不清楚。枫信没有透露自己为竞购准备了多少现金，也没有透露在此次收购中黑莓要承担多少债务。目前，黑莓基本上没有债务。上季度末，黑莓拥有约26亿美元现金，这样一来实现收购可能只需要二十多亿美元。
But any bank that provides financing could be taking a risk. The company consumed about $500 million of its cash during the last quarter, while the coming layoffs and sluggish sales raise the possibility that even more than that may vanish in the current quarter.
然而无论哪个银行提供融资，同时也都要承担风险。黑莓公司上季度花费了5亿美元现金储备，而即将进行的裁员以及迟缓的销售，加大了当前季度会花费更多现金的可能性。
By signing the letter of intent, BlackBerry effectively opened the door to other bidders. It now has six weeks to shop itself around as Fairfax conducts due diligence, or scrutinizes its books. If BlackBerry accepts another deal or walks away from Fairfax’s offer before a definitive agreement is signed, it will owe Fairfax about $157 million. If it walks away after a formal deal is signed, it will owe Fairfax about $262 million. Neither does the agreement appear to bind Fairfax to its $9 a share bid; after due diligence, Fairfax may decide to lower its offer.
签署意向书后，黑莓实际上也为其他竞购者打开了大门。现在，在枫信开展尽职调查，仔细查阅黑莓公司的账目期间，黑莓有6周时间向外界推销自己。如果黑莓接受其他公司的收购要约，或者在签订最终协议之前拒绝枫信的要约，就需要向后者赔偿1.57亿美元。如果在签署正式协议后拒绝收购，则需要赔偿2.62亿美元。但协议似乎并未约束枫信将收购价维持在每股9美元，在经过尽职调查后，枫信可以决定下调价格。
The offer establishes a timeline and a price floor for other potential bidders. But with the company in free fall, there is little certainty of another bid emerging in the coming weeks.
这份收购要约为其他潜在的竞购者设定了时间表和报价下限。不过由于黑莓每况愈下，很难确定未来几周会出现新的竞购者。
Brian Colello, an analyst with Morningstar, said that other buyers, if there are any, were unlikely to be interested in BlackBerry’s phone business.
晨星研究公司(Morningstar)分析师布莱恩·克雷洛(Brian Colello)说，即使真的有其他买家，它们也不大会对黑莓的手机业务感兴趣。
“There is no value for the BlackBerry 10 ecosystem,” he said. “The value of this company is cash and patents.”
“黑莓10生态系统没有价值，”他说。“这家公司的价值在于现金和专利。”
Analysts’ estimates put the value of the patents at about $2 billion. But not only has the market for patents cooled, BlackBerry does not directly control many of its most important patents, which it owns in common with other technology companies like Apple and Microsoft.
分析人士估计，黑莓的专利价值约有20亿美元。然而现在不仅专利市场已经不再火爆，而且黑莓手上许多最重要的专利也并非由该公司直接控制，而是与其他科技企业，如苹果(Apple)和微软(Microsoft)共同拥有。
Still, BlackBerry continues to have a strong booster in Mr. Watsa. He resigned from BlackBerry’s board in August to avoid any conflicts of interest after the company announced that it was engaged in a strategic review that might include a sale.
不过黑莓仍然拥有沃特萨这个强有力的推动者。在黑莓宣布会进行战略重审，其中可能包括出售选项之后，沃特萨在今年8月辞去了在黑莓公司董事会的职务，以避免利益冲突。
Mr. Watsa’s involvement in a buyout would ensure Canadian control of the company, which is based in Waterloo, Ontario, removing a major hurdle for a deal. While a number of Chinese companies, particularly ones with little market presence in the West, might bid for BlackBerry, the Canadian government would most likely block any such takeover on national security grounds.
沃特萨在收购过程中的参与，将确保这家位于安大略省滑铁卢的公司，继续由加拿大控制，这样就能免除并购交易中的一个重要障碍。尽管或许会有一些中国企业竞购黑莓，尤其是在西方市场并没有多少业务的企业，但加拿大政府极有可能会以国家安全的理由阻止此类收购交易。
Historically, Mr. Watsa has favored buying distressed companies and then guiding turnarounds. While the strategy has generally been successful, the company’s recent history includes some prominent failures. 
在过去，沃特萨一直喜欢收购处境被动的公司，并引领其走出困境。尽管这样的战略通常都能成功，但该公司最近的历史上却出现了一些受人瞩目的败绩。
Even without quitting the handset business, BlackBerry’s management has said it plans to expand the company’s software business. BlackBerry has ambitious plans for its relatively new software that allows corporations to control and manage employees’ mobile devices, including iPhones and Android-based phones. It has also made efforts to turn the BlackBerry Messenger instant-messaging service into a social media service.
尽管并没有退出手机业务，黑莓管理层已表示，计划扩大该公司的软件业务。该公司一款相对较新的软件可以让公司控制和管理员工的移动设备，包括iPhone和安装Android系统的手机。黑莓公司对这款软件有着雄心勃勃的计划。该公司还做出努力，尝试将即时通讯服务BlackBerry Messenger转变为社交媒体服务。
But in those areas, as in the phone business, BlackBerry has come up against large, well-financed competitors like Microsoft and Facebook.
然而在那些领域，就像手机业务一样，黑莓也需要面对资金雄厚的强大竞争对手，如微软(Microsoft)和Facebook。