JAKARTA, Indonesia — The smartphone maker BlackBerry unveiled a new model on Tuesday that it has hopes of bringing to emerging markets in Asia and South America.
印度尼西亚雅加达——智能手机生产商黑莓(BlackBerry)于周二推出了一款新产品，希望面向亚洲和南美的新兴市场销售。
The phone, the BlackBerry Z3, will at first be available exclusively for Indonesia, one of its largest markets. John S. Chen, the chief executive of the struggling company, said it was a step toward one of the biggest parts of his job: to make the BlackBerry brand cool again.
这款黑莓Z3首先将仅在印度尼西亚发售，印尼是该公司最大的市场之一。这家苦苦挣扎的公司的首席执行官程守宗(John S. Chen)表示，这是完成他的一项重要工作责任的第一步，即让黑莓这个品牌再次炫酷起来。
“BlackBerry has new technology and is financially stable,” he said on Tuesday after an event here to announce the new phone. “I think that’s got to be the first step — to explain that.”
“黑莓掌握着新技术，财务状况稳定，”他周二在这里的一场宣布推出新手机的活动结束后说，“我认为首先要说明这个情况。”
“When people have no concerns about BlackBerry the company,” he added, “then the product will be cool again.” BlackBerry has struggled in recent years, as its business in the crucial American market collapsed. The company posted a loss of $5.9 billion for its last fiscal year.
“当人们不再担心黑莓这家公司的时候，”他接着说，“那黑莓的产品就能再次酷起来。” 最近几年，黑莓一直苦苦挣扎，因为它在至关重要的美国市场上的业务受到重创。该公司的财报显示，上财年亏损59亿美元（约合370亿元人民币）。
In 2012, Thorsten Heins was appointed chief executive with a mandate to turn the company around. He left late last year as a takeover bid for BlackBerry fell apart. Mr. Chen took the reins and said this year that he planned to focus on the company’s smaller software and services business, though he added that BlackBerry would still sell phones.
2012年，托尔斯滕·海因斯(Thorsten Heins)被任命为首席执行官，受命扭转公司的局势。去年年底，因为一项收购黑莓的行动失败，海因斯下台。程守宗接过大权，并于今年表示，他计划以公司规模相对较小的软件和服务业务为重点，不过他也说，黑莓依然会销售手机。
Mr. Chen denied that the low-cost Z3 touch-screen model was a last-ditch effort to remain relevant in the industry.
程守宗否认Z3这款成本低廉的触摸屏手机是公司为了能继续留在该行业而进行的最后一搏。
“If this device allows them to grow again, even if it’s just small, steady growth, that’s a success in itself,” said Ryan Lai, a market analyst at the consulting firm IDC, Reuters reported. “That says there is still room for BlackBerry in Indonesia.”
“如果这款设备能让他们再次增长，即便是较小的稳定增长，这本身就是一种成功，”路透社(Reuters)援引咨询公司国际数据公司(IDC)市场分析师瑞安·赖(Ryan Lai)的话报道称，“那表明，印尼依然有黑莓的空间。”
BlackBerry produced the Z3 in partnership with the Foxconn Technology Group of Taiwan. Mr. Chen said that the partnership with Foxconn, which manufactures the Z3, had given BlackBerry the ability to compete in emerging markets, and that, if sales went well, “it could be a sign of things to come.”
Z3是黑莓是与台湾的富士康科技集团(Foxconn Technology Group)合作生产的。程守宗称，与富士康的合作让黑莓能在新兴市场参与竞争，并且如果销量不错，“可能预示着将来也会采取这种形式”。富士康负责Z3的加工制造。
For its part, Foxconn is considering investing at least $1 billion in Indonesia to build manufacturing plants that would produce smartphones and other electronic devices. BlackBerry plans to sell the Z3 in six other Asian markets, including India, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam, and is hoping for unit sales “in the millions” across the region.
富士康正考虑在印尼投资至少10亿美元，修建生产智能手机和其他电子设备的制造工厂。黑莓计划在包括印度、马来西亚、菲律宾和越南在内的其他六个亚洲市场销售Z3。而且，黑莓希望能在整个亚洲地区实现“数以百万计”的销量。
In Indonesia, the phone will retail for 2.2 million rupiah, or about $190. The words “Jakarta Edition” will be engraved on the backs of a limited run of 25,000 units.
在印尼，这款手机的零售价为220万印尼盾，大约相当于190美元。在2.5万部限量版手机的后盖上会印有“雅加达版”(Jakarta Edition)的字样。
BlackBerry held a flashy event for the Z3 on Tuesday at the Ritz-Carlton hotel here, featuring hip-hop dancers on a laser-lit stage and female ushers wearing aqua-blue cocktail dresses and black high heels. The Z3 Jakarta Edition will go on sale in the capital on Thursday through authorized sellers, and as on many debut days for new phone models, lines are expected to be long.
周三，黑莓在这里的丽思卡尔顿酒店为Z3举行了一场华丽的发布会。活动中，嘻哈舞者在运用了激光的舞台上起舞，女引座员穿着水蓝色的酒会礼服和黑色的高跟鞋。雅加达版的Z3将于周四经由得到授权的卖家在印尼首都销售。就像诸多新款手机的首发日一样，预计购买者的队伍会很长。
The phone has several special applications for Indonesian users, including local banking and travel services, and, in the world’s largest Muslim-majority country, a directory of halal food. The Z3 operates in the Indonesian national language as well as many regional dialects, including Javanese.
这款手机有几款面向印尼用户的特殊应用，其中包括当地的银行和旅游服务，而且因为印尼是全世界最大的穆斯林占多数的国家，这款手机还有一个清真食品指南。Z3的操作语言既有印度尼西亚的官方语言印尼语，也有包括爪哇语在内的许多地区性方言。