It is an unforgiving law of modern business: adapt or die.
现代商业有一条残酷的准则：要么适应，要么灭亡。
Make that: adapt fast — or die even faster.
这么说吧：要么快速适应，要么以更快的速度灭亡。
Like countless gee-whiz companies that captured and lost imaginations and dollars, BlackBerry, a giant of the pre-iPhone era, has faded with remarkable speed. After enduring years of dwindling sales, the company said on Monday that it was exploring “strategic options” — business code for searching for a savior.
和不计其数赢得又失去人们的兴趣和钞票的令人惊叹的企业一样，前iPhone时代的巨头黑莓(BlackBerry)以惊人的速度衰落了。经历了多年的销售下滑后，黑莓公司周一表示，公司正在探索“战略选择”，这是寻求救星的商业术语。
For the moment, few seem to want to buy BlackBerry or, for that matter, its newest products. Unless a suitor emerges, BlackBerry risks joining the ranks of technology has-beens like Palm, Gateway and Commodore.
目前，似乎没什么人愿意购买黑莓及其最新产品。除非出现一个求购公司，否则，黑莓便可能会加入包括Palm、Gateway和Commodore在内的过气科技公司的行列。
Speculation has circulated for years that large technology companies, notably Microsoft, have looked at BlackBerry and decided to pass. Smaller technology companies based in China undoubtedly covet BlackBerry’s brand and some of its technology, but the government of Canada, where the company is based, has strongly hinted that any such takeover would be banned on national security grounds.
多年来，一直有猜测称，一些大型科技公司，尤其是微软(Microsoft)，曾经属意黑莓，后来又决定放弃。毋庸置疑，总部位于中国的一些规模较小的科技公司对黑莓的品牌和部分科技垂涎三尺，但黑莓总部所在地加拿大的政府已经强烈暗示，将以国家安全为由禁止任何类似收购。
The abrupt decline of BlackBerry illustrates how consumers and investors demand almost instant change these days, especially from tech companies. And the window for redemption for a tech company that misses a step can be tiny indeed.
黑莓的突然衰落表明，如今的消费者和投资者要求企业实现几乎是瞬息之间的变化，尤其是科技公司。而且，对一步走错的科技公司而言，挽回局势的余地真的很小。
Four years ago, BlackBerry had 51 percent of the North American smartphone market, according to the research firm Gartner. And Mike Lazaridis, BlackBerry’s co-founder who was then its co-chief executive and co-chairman, was promising an even brighter future.
根据调研公司高德纳(Gartner)的数据，四年前，黑莓在北美智能手机市场上的占有率为51%。当时，黑莓的联合创始人、时任黑莓联合首席执行官兼联合董事长的麦克·拉扎里迪斯(Mike Lazaridis)承诺，黑莓的未来甚至会更美好。
But then the company responded slowly to new iPhone and Android devices and the company’s sales evaporated. Now, the company has 3.4 percent of the market and Mr. Lazaridis is gone from BlackBerry.
但后来，黑莓公司对新出现的iPhone和Android设备反应迟缓，销售急剧下滑。如今，黑莓在北美智能手机市场的占有率只有3.4%，拉扎里迪斯也已离开黑莓。
BlackBerry’s board and its current chief executive, Thorsten Heins, portrayed Monday’s announcement as part of a new beginning, but few analysts and little of the tech community were buying that idea. Instead, BlackBerry is often grouped with other once-powerful tech companies, like Nokia and Dell, that are now struggling and appear to have hard roads back to growth, if any at all.
黑莓董事会和现任首席执行官托尔斯滕·海因斯(Thorsten Heins)称，周一的声明只是公司全新开端的一部分，然而，分析人士和科技界人士几乎都不认同这一点。相反，黑莓往往会被归为诺基亚(Nokia)和戴尔(Dell)的同类，这些曾经盛极一时的科技公司如今都举步维艰，重拾增长的道路十分艰难。
“Acquiring BlackBerry is necrophilia,” said Jean-Louis Gassée, a former Apple executive who was chairman of PalmSource, an unsuccessful attempt to turn Palm, once the leader in hand-held computing, into a software company. “The BB brand is tarnished.”
“收购黑莓就是恋尸癖，”前苹果公司(Apple)高管、前PalmSource董事长让-路易斯·卡西(Jean-Louis Gassée)说。PalmSource原本打算把曾是便携式电脑领军者的Palm改造为一家软件公司，可惜并不成功。“黑莓这个品牌已经不值钱了。”
He added, in an e-mail typed on an Apple iPhone 5: “This former BB fan is sad.”
他还在用苹果公司的iPhone 5写的一封邮件中说：“我这个曾经的黑莓粉丝感到很难过。”
While not everyone is as pessimistic as Mr. Gassée, there is little expectation that the move by BlackBerry would bring much wealth to the company’s beleaguered shareholders.
并不是每个人都像卡西那样悲观，但是，黑莓的举动的确不太可能会为公司身处困境的股东带来太多财富。
“We don’t foresee any scenarios where the value of the company will be significantly larger,” Tim Long, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets, a unit of the Bank of Montreal, wrote in a note to investors.
“我认为公司市值大幅度提高的局面不会出现，”蒙特利尔银行资本市场(BMO Capital Markets)的分析师蒂姆·朗(Tim Long)在写给投资者的材料中说。这是蒙特利尔银行(Bank of Montreal)的一个分支机构。
BlackBerry first announced that it was conducting a strategic review in 2012, after Mr. Lazaridis and its other co-chairman and co-chief executive, Jim Balsillie, stepped down in favor of Mr. Heins, a former Siemens executive who joined BlackBerry in 2007.
2012年，在拉扎里迪斯和公司另一位联合主席及联席首席执行官吉姆·巴尔斯利(Jim Balsillie)为了支持于2007年加入黑莓的前西门子(Siemens)高管海因斯而让位之后，黑莓首次宣布公司正在进行策略重估。
Their ouster followed a slump for the company as consumers moved to smartphones with full touchscreens, multiple cameras and hundreds of thousands of apps to choose from. BlackBerry’s devices largely stayed the same, often with half-screens and a physical keyboard.
在他们离开管理职位之前，因为消费者开始转向带有多个摄像头，并有无数应用可供选择的全触屏智能手机，公司业绩已经出现下跌。黑莓的设备基本保持不变，往往只有半个屏幕和一个实体键盘。
But this year, the company introduced its largest and most ambitious turnaround effort so far, with its BlackBerry 10 line of phones. But it appears to have been too little, too late — the new devices have not dented Apple and Samsung’s grip on the market.
但是，黑莓今年进行了迄今为止最大且最有雄心的改变，推出了黑莓10系列手机。然而，这种改变似乎太小而且太迟——黑莓的新设备并没有改变市场由苹果和三星(Samsung)控制的局面。
The failure of the BlackBerry 10 line of phones quickly led to speculation that BlackBerry, like Palm before it, would be broken apart and perhaps gradually disappear, at best lingering as little more than a brand name.
黑莓10系列手机的失败很快就让人们开始怀疑，黑莓会像之前的Palm一样分崩离析，还可能会逐渐消失，最多也只能作为一个品牌名称而残存于世。
On Monday, however, BlackBerry’s directors did not specifically indicate why the company had now effectively decided on a major shake-up.
但是，在周一，黑莓的各位高管并没有具体说明，公司现在为什么痛下决心，要实施一次重大的改变。
“Given the importance and strength of our technology, and the evolving industry and competitive landscape, we believe that now is the right time to explore strategic alternatives,” Timothy D. Dattels, the director who will lead the special committee overseeing the review, said in a statement.
将领导负责战略重估的特别委员会的蒂莫西·D·达特尔斯(Timothy D. Dattels)在一份声明中说，“鉴于我们的技术价值和技术实力，鉴于不断演进的行业状况和竞争态势，我们认为，现在是探讨战略选择的正确时机。”