Rupert Murdoch and Wendi Deng Murdoch appeared in court Wednesday morning and announced they had reached a divorce settlement, an agreement that effectively ends the 14-year marriage of the media mogul and his third wife.
鲁珀特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)和邓文迪本周三上午出现在法庭上，宣布他们已经达成离婚协议。该协议正式终结了这位媒体大亨与其第三任妻子维持了14年的婚姻。
At a hearing at New York State Supreme Court in Lower Manhattan, the couple sat at far ends of a small table, flanked by their lawyers. Both told a judge they had signed on to the confidential hundred-page agreement that rested on the table, which made a trial unnecessary.
在曼哈顿下城的纽约州最高法院举行的一个听证会上，两人坐在一张小桌子的对面，两侧是他们的律师。双方告诉法官，他们已经签署了一份长达百页的机密协议，现在就放在桌子上，无需再进行庭审。
“I’m glad that you’ve been able to resolve these matters amicably,” said Judge Ellen Gesmer, whose approval the final divorce decree still needs. “Good luck to both of you.”
”我很高兴你们已经友好地解决这些问题，”埃伦·杰斯莫(Ellen Gesmer)法官说，最终的离婚判决仍需要获得她的批准。“祝你们俩好运。”
People close to the Murdochs said the settlement negotiations were relatively straightforward, in part because they signed one prenuptial and two postnuptial agreements delineating the division of assets in the event of a divorce.
熟悉默多克家族的人说，两人的离婚和解谈判相对简单，部分原因是他们签订了一份婚前协议和两份婚后协议，约定了如果离婚该如何分割财产。
Still, there were several contentious issues, including custody arrangements for their two daughters, Grace, 12, and Chloe, 10. Mrs. Murdoch will continue to live in the couple’s Fifth Avenue penthouse triplex with the children, according to people with knowledge of the agreement.
然而仍然存在一些争议性的问题，其中包括他们的两个女儿——12岁的格蕾斯(Grace)和10岁的克洛伊(Chloe)的监护安排问题。了解这份协议的人说，邓文迪跟孩子们将继续住在夫妇俩此前所在的第五大道一套三层顶楼公寓里。
Mr. Murdoch has four children from his previous two marriages, and all six of his children have equal economic interests in a family trust that holds most of Mr. Murdoch’s wealth, estimated at about $13 billion. Chloe and Grace, however, do not have the same voting rights in the trust.
默多克在前两次婚姻中育有四个子女，所有六个孩子在家族信托基金中拥有同等的经济权益。默多克估计拥有约130亿美元（约合792亿人民币）资产，其中的绝大部分由家族信托基金掌管着。但是，克洛伊和格蕾斯在信托基金中不具有同等的投票权。
The Murdochs’ divorce will not affect the ownership and control of Mr. Murdoch’s multibillion-dollar media conglomerate, which was recently split into two separate companies: News Corporation, a publishing company, and 21st Century Fox, which houses entertainment assets.
默多克这次离婚不会影响其价值数十亿美元的传媒集团的所有权和控制权，该集团最近分拆成两家独立的公司：一家是出版公司新闻集团(News Corporation)，另一家是21世纪福克斯电影公司(21st Century Fox)，负责经营集团的娱乐资产。
The 15-minute hearing was held in a small courtroom. Mr. Murdoch, 82, arrived first, wearing a dark gray suit and red tie, and sat quietly in the back row while waiting for the proceedings to begin. He was accompanied by his divorce lawyer, Ira E. Garr, and the general counsel of his two companies, Gerson A. Zweifach.
这场持续了15分钟的听证会在一个小法庭里举行。82岁的默多克先期抵达，他穿着深灰色的套装，戴着红色领带，静静坐在后排，等待法律程序开始。陪同的是他的离婚律师艾拉·E·加尔(Ira E. Garr)和他两家公司的法律总顾问格尔森·A·茨韦法赫(Gerson A. Zweifach)。
Mrs. Murdoch, 44, entered the courtroom a few minutes later, dressed in a hunter green overcoat and carrying a black-and-white leopard print bag. Her husband stood up and they shook hands. The couple shook hands again at the end of the hearing and did not engage in conversation.
几分钟后，44岁的邓文迪进入了法庭，她穿着一件草绿色外套，背着一只黑白色的豹纹包。她丈夫站了起来，他们握了握手。在听证会结束后，两人再次握了手，但没有进行交谈。
Both Murdochs declined to comment, other than issuing a joint statement. “We move forward with mutual respect and a shared interest in the health and happiness of our two daughters,” they said.
除了发布一份联合声明之外，默多克和邓文迪均拒绝予以置评。“带着对彼此的尊重，以及对两个女儿的健康和快乐的共同关注，我们向前跨出了这一步，”他们说。
Mr. Murdoch met Wendi Deng in 1998 on a business trip to China, where she worked for a division of News Corporation. They married a year later in New York Harbor aboard Mr. Murdoch’s 155-foot yacht, the Morning Glory. The boat has been put up for sale.
1998年，默多克在前往中国的一次商务旅行中遇到了邓文迪，她当时在新闻集团一个部门工作。一年后，他们在默多克停靠在纽约港的游艇“牵牛花”号(Morning Glory)上结婚，这条155英尺长（约47米）的船已经被挂牌出售。
Normally a fixture on the New York social circuit, Mrs. Murdoch has kept a low profile since June, when Mr. Murdoch surprised her with divorce papers. The lawsuit said that the “relationship between husband and wife has broken down irretrievably.” Friends say that in recent years, the two have been living largely separate lives.
默多克今年6月递交了离婚文件，令邓文迪感到惊讶，原本常常出入纽约社交圈的她自那之后一直保持行事低调。诉讼文书称“夫妻之间的关系已经出现无可挽回的破裂。”朋友们说，最近几年两人在很大程度上已经处于分居状态。
In 2011, during British parliamentary hearings on a phone hacking scandal involving one of Mr. Murdoch’s newspapers, Mrs. Murdoch made headlines when she lunged at a protester trying to attack her husband with a pie.
在2011年英国议会的一次听证会期间，邓文迪上了头条新闻，因为在一名抗议者试图攻击她丈夫时，她奋起反击。那次听证会涉及默多克旗下一家报纸的电话窃听丑闻，
Her protective urge was again on display in court on Wednesday. This time though, she was solicitous of her lawyer, William D. Zabel.
本周三，邓文迪在法庭上再次显露了她的保护欲。不过这一次的对象是她的律师威廉·D·扎贝尔(William D. Zabel)。
Walking with a limp and aided by a cane, Mr. Zabel was in obvious discomfort as he awaited hip replacement surgery later this week. Mrs. Murdoch grabbed Mr. Zabel by the arm both before and after the hearing, helping him move about the courtroom. Hobbling in the hallway, Mr. Zabel was asked how he was feeling and if he had any comment on the case.
扎贝尔本周晚些时候要做一次髋关节置换手术，在法庭里他拄着拐杖，走路一瘸一拐，显然感觉不适。在听证会进行之前和之后，邓文迪都握着扎贝尔的手臂，帮助他在法庭里走动。扎贝尔在走廊上蹒跚而行时，有人问他感觉如何，对这个离婚案件有何评论。
“Bad hip,” Mr. Zabel said. “Good settlement.”
“髋部不行，”扎贝尔说。“案子还行。”