BRUSSELS — As Angela Merkel savored the results of Germany’s national elections, newspapers on the left and right in Greece on Monday gave the same mournful assessment of what the result means beyond German borders. “Victory for the Queen of Austerity,” declared the front page of Ta Nea, a center-left daily. “Merkel victory atop the ruins of the South,” said the conservative Dimokratia.
布鲁塞尔——周一，当安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)还在品尝德国大选胜利果实的时候，希腊左翼和右翼报纸在谈及大选结果对其他国家的影响时表现出了同样的悲观。中右翼的日报《新闻报》(Ta Nea)在头版断言，这是“紧缩女王的胜利”。保守的《民主报》(Dimokratia)则宣称，“默克尔的胜利建立在南欧废墟之上”。
Bloggers, meanwhile, posted a cartoon that showed Ms. Merkel, a stethoscope around her neck, wagging her finger at a skeleton slumped in a blue chair and ordering “exercise, exercise, exercise to strengthen your muscles.”
与此同时，博客写手们贴出了一张漫画，画面中的默克尔脖子上挂着听诊器，手指指向一具瘫坐在蓝色椅子上的骷髅，命令道：“锻炼，锻炼，锻炼，这样才能增强肌肉力量。”
For months now, Europe has been waiting for the end of a German election campaign that, while focused almost entirely on domestic issues, stirred furtive hope among those outside Germany that, if re-elected to a third term, Ms. Merkel, despite having given no indication, would try a more energetic, and perhaps more economically stimulative, approach to leading Europe out of its extended slump. The waiting has now ended — and so, too, has any hint of a new approach.
几个月来，欧洲一直在等待德国选战的结局。这场大选几乎完全以德国内部事务为焦点，但也暗暗在周边国家之中激起了希望：如果默克尔竞选连任成功、三度出任总理，她会尝试一条更积极，或许也更能刺激经济发展的路线，带领欧洲走出长期的经济萧条，尽管目前她还没有给出这种信号。现在，等待已经结束，有关新路线的任何暗示也已不见。
Instead of a respite from years of grinding budget cuts and tax increases in return for bailout funds, Ms. Merkel’s conservative Christian Democrats campaigned on holding the line against expensive commitments to reviving Germany’s neighbors. Her financial aides claimed that signs that Europe’s long recession had recently become less severe had proved that its austerity policies were working.
德国多年来一直要求接受其资金救助的国家削减预算、增加税收，默克尔领导的保守派基督教民主联盟在选战中不但并未提出放松要求，还表明立场：反对就复兴德国邻邦进行高昂投入。她的财政助手宣称，有迹象显示欧洲长期衰退的严峻态势已有所缓解，这表明紧缩政策正在起作用。
Ms. Merkel’s electoral success — the Christian Democrats and their allies, the Christian Social Union in Bavaria, together won 41.5 percent of the popular vote — will bring “more of the same,” predicted Mats Persson, director of Open Europe, a London-based research group. For countries now on economic life-support, this would mean yet more painful “exercise,” which in Greece has slimmed job prospects so significantly that over 60 percent of youth are now unemployed.
据总部位于伦敦的研究机构开放欧洲(Open Europe)的主任马茨·佩尔森(Mats Persson)预计，默克尔胜选——基民盟及其盟友拜恩基督教社会联盟(Christian Social Union in Bavaria)总共获得了 41.5 %的选票——会导致“更多同样”取向的政策出炉。对于经济还处在“重症监护”阶段的欧盟国家而言，这意味着更加痛苦的“锻炼”。在希腊，这种锻炼已经让就业机会大幅缩减，目前有超过60%的年轻人处于失业状态。
Whatever coalition government emerges in Berlin from what could be weeks of haggling, Mr. Persson said, “there may be a little change of rhetoric, but the substance will remain the same.”
佩尔森说，不论预计耗时数周的讨价还价让什么样的联合政府在柏林浮出水面，“政策的实质都不会改变，但在说辞上也许会有一点儿变化。”
“There will be a continued focus on austerity,” he said.
他说，“会继续以紧缩政策为重心。”
Ms. Merkel said as much herself during a final day of campaigning on Saturday. “We have to continue on this course,” she told an election rally in Berlin, denouncing the European policies of her main rival, Peer Steinbrück, who had called for a new, and presumably mostly German-financed, Marshall Plan to relieve what he called “a deadly dose of austerity.”
默克尔本人在周六，也就是竞选活动的最后一天也是这样表示的。“我们必须继续推行这一路线。”她在柏林的一个竞选集会上这样说道。她还对主要竞争对手皮尔·施泰因布吕克(Peer Steinbrück)的欧洲政策进行了抨击。施泰因布吕克主张推行据推测主要由德国资助的新马歇尔计划(Marshall Plan)，以缓解他称之为“致命剂量的紧缩”所造成的后果。
Still, some outside Germany held out hope that a coalition with Mr. Steinbrück and his Social Democrats could moderate Ms. Merkel’s approach.
尽管如此，德国周边国家的一些人还抱有一线希望，施泰因布吕克以及他的社会民主党如果能在联合政府里占有一席之地，就可以让默克尔的路线变得温和一些。
“We should not forget that Merkel needs a partner,” said Hannes Swoboda of Austria, president of the Socialists and Democrats, a grouping of left-leaning forces in the European Parliament in Brussels. “Now is the time to get a more flexible policy. She could not be flexible before the election for fear of losing votes to the Alternative for Germany,” he said, referring to an upstart protest party that, campaigning on promises to scrap the euro and stop using German money to bail out Europe’s economic laggards, nearly crossed the 5 percent hurdle to enter Parliament.
“我们不该忘记，默克尔需要一个合作伙伴。”欧洲议会(European Parliament，总部位于布鲁塞尔)奥地利籍议员、左倾势力社会民主进步联盟党团(Socialists and Democrats)主席汉尼斯·斯沃博达(Hannes Swoboda)说。“眼下是时候采取更为灵活的政策了。大选前，她不能表现出灵活性，因为担心会让选票流失到德国另类选择党(Alternative for Germany)那边。”他提到的另类选择党是一个急速蹿升的反对党派，在竞选活动中承诺放弃欧元、不再用德国的资金援助那些经济落后的欧洲国家，他们差一点就赢得了进入议会所需的5%的选票。
Ms. Merkel’s center-left opponents tried during the campaign to rally support for the idea of so-called eurobonds, which would effectively pool the debts of the 17 countries that use the euro. But even Mr. Swoboda says the new flexibility he expects from Ms. Merkel will not go that far. “This is not on the agenda,” he said. “Maybe in three or four years.”
反默克尔的中左翼力量在竞选活动中竭力鼓动公众支持所谓的欧元券(eurobonds)构想。按照这一构想，基本可以合并欧元区17国的债务。但就连斯沃博达也说，他不认为默克尔会表现出如此大尺度的灵活性。“这件事根本不在议程里，”他说，“可能要等上三、四年。”
The idea of pooling obligations was raised at the start of Europe’s rolling debt crisis in 2009 and gained support among some economists. But, in a measure of Germany’s outsize role in decision-making in Brussels, it went nowhere once Ms. Merkel made clear that she opposed it.
2009年欧洲出现债务展期危机之初，就有人提出了债务合并的构想，并获得了一些经济学家的支持。不过，在布鲁塞尔方面的决策过程中，德国发挥着极为重要的作用，因此，当默克尔明确表示反对时，这个构想就没了下文。
Asked about the possibility of Greece receiving yet more funds, Ms. Merkel said on German television immediately after Sunday’s election that her finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, was already committed to examining a further request. and that would almost certainly lead to a third bailout deal for Athens. Mr. Schäuble also appeared on television Sunday night, assuring Germany’s European partners that Berlin would play a “reliable” role in the continent’s affairs.
周日的大选投票刚刚结束，默克尔就被德国电视台问及希腊是否有可能得到更多资助。她回答说，她的财政部长沃尔夫冈·朔伊布勒(Wolfgang Schäuble)正在审核雅典方面申请更多援助的请求。而这几乎铁定会以第三次达成救助协议而告终。朔伊布勒周日晚间也出现在了电视上，他向德国的欧洲伙伴保证，柏林方面将在欧洲事务中充当“负责任的”角色。
For much of Europe, particularly in countries that balk at what they see as efforts by Berlin to recreate European economies in its own image, Ms. Merkel inspires a mix of anxiety and grudging respect. Italy’s La Repubblica newspaper on Monday called her the “tranquil and fierce czarina that bewitched Germany.” The French newspaper Le Monde declared her “Chancellor of Germany, Chief of Europe.”
在欧洲大部分地区，尤其在那些认为柏林方面采取某些举措的目的是按自己的构想重建欧洲经济，并对此有所抵触的国家之中，默克尔激起的是一种焦虑和勉强的尊重交织的情绪。意大利《共和国报》(La Repubblica)称默克尔为“迷惑了德国的沉稳而又凶狠的女沙皇”。法国《世界报》(Le Monde)则称她为“德国的总理，欧洲的首领”。
With nearly a third of the Euro zone’s economic output and the lowest unemployment rate after Austria — 5.3 percent in July compared with 27.6 percent in Greece and 26.3 in Spain, according to Eurostat, Europe’s statistical agency — Germany is Europe’s undisputed economic powerhouse, and also its paymaster.
据欧盟统计机构欧洲统计局(Eurostat)公布的数据，德国经济产出几乎占到欧洲经济总产出的三分之一，其7月份的失业率为5.3%，在奥地利以外的欧洲国家中是最低的，相比之下，希腊和西班牙7月份的失业率分别高达27.6％和26.3%——德国是欧洲无可争议的经济强国，同时也是它的“金主”。
But having already contributed hundreds of billions of dollars to bailout funds for Greece, Ireland and others, Berlin is in no mood to relax its insistence that countries asking for help must undertake labor market and other reforms and also accept the tough discipline of “fiscal consolidation,” economist-speak for austerity. Ifo Institute, an economic research institute in Munich, estimates that Germany has paid out nearly $600 billion, and has total bailout liabilities of $868 billion.
在为希腊、冰岛以及其他国家提供了数千亿美元的援助资金之后，柏林方面不愿意再放松援助条件，它要求申请援助的国家必须在劳动力市场以及其他方面实行改革，并遵守苛刻的“财政整顿”(fiscal consolidation)纪律——经济学家称之为紧缩。据位于慕尼黑的经济研究机构——德国经济信息研究所（Ifo Institute）估计，德国已经支付了将近6000亿美元，而该国与援助相关的债务责任高达8680亿美元。 
Even before the election, it was clear that, barring a major upset, Berlin would stick to policies that Mr. Schäuble, in a commentary in The Financial Times, recently declared a great success. “The world should rejoice at the positive economic signals the euro zone is sending almost continuously,” Mr. Schäuble wrote.
即便在大选前，事情就已经很明了了，除非出现大的意外，柏林方面将坚持原先的政策。朔伊布勒最近在《金融时报》(The Financial Times)撰写评论文章称，这些政策是极为成功的。“欧元区几乎是在持续释放经济向好的信号，世界应该为此欢呼，”他在文中写道。
Officials in Brussels, the headquarters of the European Union, say they mostly agree with Mr. Schäuble’s upbeat analysis, though some questioned his “triumphalist” tone. The European Commission has in recent months slowed the pace of austerity, relaxing budget targets for a number of countries and stressing labor and other reforms as well as just cuts. But it insists it is sticking to its basic policy of forcing financial discipline. “For Europe, recovery is within sight,” José Manuel Barroso, the president of the union’s executive arm, the European Commission, said this month.
布鲁塞尔欧盟总部的官员们称，他们基本赞同朔伊布勒的乐观分析，不过也有人对他这种“洋洋得意”的论调提出了质疑。最近几个月，欧盟委员会(European Commission)已经放缓了紧缩的步伐：它放宽了一些国家的预算目标，并在推行紧缩政策之余着重强调对劳动力市场和其他领域的改革。但它坚称，强制性财政纪律作为基本政策将保持不变。“欧洲复苏在即，”欧盟执行机构欧盟委员会主席若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)本月表示。