PARIS — Around the time Rupert Murdoch married wife No. 4, the former model Jerry Hall, Wendi Deng (wife No. 3) was a near-ubiquitous presence at Paris Fashion Week.
巴黎——正值鲁伯特·默多克娶了第四任妻子，前模特杰里·霍尔(Jerry Hall)之际，他的第三任妻子邓文迪少有地在巴黎时装周亮相。
On Saturday, Ms. Deng was in the front row at Nina Ricci, seated next to Anna Wintour, then again on Sunday at Céline and Givenchy (where Ms. Wintour reminded Ms. Deng and Bradley Cooper, another seat mate, that they had met each other at the Met Gala in New York), Monday at Saint Laurent and Giambattista Valli, and Tuesday morning at Chanel.
星期六，邓文迪出现在莲娜丽姿(Nina Ricci)秀场前排，坐在安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)身边，周日又出现在赛琳(Céline)与纪梵希(Givenchy)秀场，在纪梵希秀场上，温图尔提醒邓文迪与坐在另一边的布拉德利·库珀(Bradley Cooper)，他们三个在纽约的大都会艺术博物馆慈善舞会上见过。周一，邓文迪出现在圣·洛朗(Saint Laurent)与詹巴迪斯塔·瓦利(Giambattista Valli)的秀场，周二早上又出现在香奈儿(Chanel)秀场。
“I don’t usually come to Paris for fashion week, but I decided to this weekend,” Ms. Deng said at the Chanel show, where the designer Karl Lagerfeld had turned the Grand Palais into a showroom the size of nearly four football fields, each person assigned a front-row seat in a maze that created something of an obstacle course for the models.
“我不常来巴黎参加时装周，但这个周末我决定来，”邓文迪在香奈儿的秀场上说。在这里，设计师卡尔·拉格斐(Karl Lagerfeld)把大皇宫美术馆变成了将近四个橄榄球场那么大的展示厅，所有前排座椅安排得好像迷宫，成为了模特行进中的障碍。
“It’s been such fun, I can’t tell you,” she said. “The standout shows for me have been Givenchy and also Saint Laurent last night, which was simply incredible.”
“太有意思了，简直没法描述，”她说。“我觉得最精彩的是纪梵希和昨晚圣·洛朗的秀，它真是不可思议。”
“Hedi gave us beautiful party dresses in a simply gorgeous setting,” she said, referring to Hedi Slimane of Saint Laurent.
“艾迪带给了我们样式简单优美的漂亮晚会礼服，”她说，她是指圣·洛朗的艾迪·斯理曼(Hedi Slimane)。
Ms. Deng pronounced herself a major fan of Chanel — a statement supported by the fact that she was dressed in the label from head to toe — and added that she had dinner with Mr. Lagerfeld while in town. “He really is just the most energetic and creative man and so interesting to talk to,” she said before Cindi Leive, the editor of Glamour, walked over for a few words.
邓文迪说自己是香奈儿的忠实拥趸，的确如此：她从头到脚穿的都是这个牌子。她还说，自己在巴黎时曾和拉格斐共进晚餐。“他真的是最有活力，最有创意的人，和他聊天真是太有意思了，”后来《Glamour》杂志的总编辛迪·利夫(Cindi Leive)走过来说了两句。
Several aisles over, hordes of paparazzi seemed on the verge of punches in the hopes of getting in a better position to photograph Pharrell Williams, who was enthusiastically greeting Jonathan Newhouse, chief executive of Condé Nast International, while Willow Smith, Stella Tennant, Caroline de Maigret and Ines de la Fressange sat close by. Mr. Williams had newly blond hair, which appeared to match his sunny disposition, even when the scrum continued post-show.
几排过道之外，大群八卦记者为了找到更好的位置抢拍法雷尔·威廉姆斯(Pharrell Williams)，似乎快要打起来了，威廉姆斯正热心地迎接康泰纳仕国际的首席执行官乔纳森·纽豪斯(Jonathan Newhouse)。韦罗·史密斯(Willow Smith)、史蒂娜·坦娜特(Stella Tennant)、卡洛琳·德·麦格雷(Caroline de Maigret)与伊娜·德·拉·弗拉桑热(Ines de la Fressange)坐在附近。威廉姆斯新近染了金色头发，和他开朗的性格正好相称，不过走秀结束后，混乱的局面还在延续。
“It was just amazing; it was like being hit by a barrage of creativity and not at all how I expected,” the singer said as he tried to shuffle backstage. “I’ve worked with Karl on projects before, so I know he’s the real deal.
“这真是太棒了，感觉像受到了一大堆创意的冲击，完全出乎我的意料，”这位歌手一边往后台挤去一边说。“我曾经和卡尔合作过项目，我知道他有真本事。”
“I’ve seen the ideas when they are sketched out onto the page and how rapidly those visions come to fruition,” he continued. “It’s like magic. He’s the definition of creative with elegance.”
“这些创意还是草图的时候我就见过它们，亲眼目睹了这些形象是怎么迅速成型的，”他继续说，“就像是魔法，他真是优雅创意的典范。”