BERLIN — Chancellor Angela Merkel scored a stunning personal triumph in Sunday’s national elections in Germany, becoming the only major leader to be re-elected twice since the financial crisis of 2008 and winning strong popular endorsement for her mix of austerity and solidarity in managing troubled Europe.
柏林——周日举行的德国大选中，现任总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)获得了惊人的个人胜利，成为自2008年金融危机以来，唯一三度当选的主要国家领导人，这意味着她在应对欧洲困局中混合采用的紧缩和团结方针赢得了民众的大力支持。
The surprising show of strength for the chancellor and her center-right Christian Democrats — even their own polls had not suggested such a result — was just short of an absolute majority, according to preliminary official results published on Monday. That is something no German chancellor has achieved since Konrad Adenauer in 1957.
周一公布的官方初步统计结果显示，默克尔及其中右翼的基督教民主联盟展示了惊人实力——就连他们自己做的民调也没有预示这样的结果——刚刚赢得了绝对多数的选票。自1957年康拉德·阿登纳(Konrad Adenauer)以来，还没有哪位德国总理获得过这样的胜利。
Ms. Merkel, 59 and a physicist raised in Communist East Germany, was unusually buoyant when she appeared before supporters, who chanted “Angie! Angie!” and gave her two whole minutes of applause at party headquarters. She exuberantly thanked voters, campaigners and her husband, the quantum chemist Joachim Sauer. Mr. Sauer, who tends to shun the limelight, stood at the side of the stage, acknowledging the jubilation of her fans.
默克尔现年59岁，是一名物理学家，在共产党统治的东德长大。她精神抖擞地出现在了该党总部的支持者面前，这些支持者高呼“安吉！安吉 ！”并向她致以整整两分钟的掌声。默克尔表达了对选民、竞选班子和她丈夫、量子化学家约阿希姆·绍尔(Joachim Sauer)的感谢。绍尔喜欢避开风头，这时他站在主席台一侧，答谢为默克尔欢呼雀跃的粉丝们。
Later, during a raucous celebration at her party headquarters, Ms. Merkel clapped and sang along with the crowds but reminded them, “Tomorrow, we work.”
之后，该党总部举办了一场喧闹的庆祝活动，默克尔拍着手跟大家一起唱歌，但也提醒他们，“明天我们要工作。”
For all her success, it is not clear how Ms. Merkel will govern in her third four-year term. Her allies for the past four years, the business-minded Free Democrats, were expected to lose their place in Parliament, missing the 5 percent cutoff. And a narrow majority would be unstable — risking defeat in crucial parliamentary votes needed to pass more aid or credits for troubled economies.
尽管默克尔大获成功，但她将在第三个4年任期中如何执政尚不明朗。她过去4年的盟友是重视商业的自由民主党，由于未能跨过5%的门槛，该党将失去在议会中的席位。而微弱多数会带来不稳定局势——可能导致默克尔在关键的议会投票中失败，无法为陷入困境的经济体提供更多援助和信贷支持。
So the most likely course is that Ms. Merkel will enter a grand coalition with the No. 2 party nationally, the center-left Social Democrats.
因此，最有可能的做法是， 默克尔跟排在第二位的党派，即中左翼的社会民主党组建联盟。
In the past three years, the Social Democrats have given crucial support to Ms. Merkel in Parliament in passing credit lines and aid packages, tied to painful reforms, for euro-zone countries in need. But the center-leftists are likely to extract a high price in domestic reforms — a minimum wage, or social change — in exchange for joining a Merkel government in which they would be clearly the junior partner. Exit poll projections showed them with around 25 percent, far below their center-right rivals, whose vote totals are projected to be around 42 percent.
在过去3年中，社会民主党在议会为默克尔提供了至关重要的支持，帮助她通过了一些议案；这些议案为欧元区需要援助的国家提供信贷额度和各项援助，同时也要求它们进行过程痛苦的改革。但中左派有可能在国内改革领域开出高价——最低工资，或社会变革——以换取跟默克尔政府结盟，成为联盟中的弱势合作方。出口民调预测显示，他们可能获得 25％左右的选票，远远低于其中右翼对手基民盟，后者的得票率预计将达42％左右。
Ms. Merkel entered politics after the Berlin Wall fell in 1989. She is now widely viewed as the world’s most powerful woman, and set to overtake Margaret Thatcher as Europe’s longest-serving elected female leader.
默克尔在1989年柏林墙倒塌后进入政坛，现在她被广泛视为世界上最有权势的女人，将超越玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)成为欧洲任职时间最长的民选女性领导人。
Her critics accuse her of lacking strategic vision, relying on tactical skills to survive, and ask why she has not used her power to write more history, both at home and in the unified Europe that is the source of Germany’s political and economic strength.
默克尔的批评者们指责她缺乏战略眼光，依靠战术技巧来生存，并质问她为什么没有利用自己的力量来书写更多的历史——无论在德国国内，还是在统一的欧洲，后者是德国政治和经济实力的源泉。
“She has a technocratic understanding of Europe,” said Joschka Fischer, the former Greens leader and foreign minister from 1998 to 2005. But, he added, “Europe is not a scientific project.”
前绿党领袖、 1998年至2005年任外长的约施卡·菲舍尔(Joschka Fischer) 说： “她对欧洲有一种技术专家式的了解， ”但他补充说， “欧洲可不是一个科学项目。 ”
The euro crisis, in this view, is about politics and sovereignty, and how much of the latter the 17 nations that use the euro, and the 11 others in the European Union, are prepared to abandon to make a success of their project.
在这个角度来看，欧元危机关乎政治和主权，关乎17个欧元区成员国和欧盟的其他11个国家准备放弃多少主权，来促使他们的共同计划获得成功。
Germany’s European allies have been in suspense, waiting for the continent’s most important election this year. President François Hollande of France indicated how eager, even impatient, they are when he congratulated Ms. Merkel from Paris and invited her to visit as soon as possible. Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, who hopes Ms. Merkel will supported his quest to claw back rights from Europe’s regulators in Brussels, posted his congratulations on Twitter, adding, “I’m looking forward to continuing to work closely with her.”
过去一段时间，德国的欧洲盟国暂时停止行动，等待着欧洲大陆今年最重要的大选结果。法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)表明了他们对此有多么热心、乃至于有些焦躁：他从巴黎向默克尔表示祝贺，并邀请她尽快赴法访问。英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)希望默克尔支持自己从布鲁塞尔的欧洲监管机构夺回权利的举动，他在Twitter上表达了对默克尔的祝贺，并称：“我期待与她继续紧密合作。”