As evidence grows that the German economy, the largest in Europe, is beginning to stall, Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed a growing willingness on Thursday to use government spending to stimulate growth, a possible shift in position that could ripple across the entire eurozone.
随着有越来越多的证据表明德国——欧洲最大的经济体——的经济正开始陷入停滞，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)周四表示，用政府开支来刺激增长的意向在逐渐增强，这种可能发生的立场转变，也许会影响整个欧元区。
Ms. Merkel’s new tack, signaled in a Berlin news conference, may be partly a response to increasingly clamorous criticism from the International Monetary Fund, independent economists and fellow Europeans that her longstanding emphasis on balancing the federal budget needs to give way to pumping more money into the lethargic German economy.
默克尔在柏林的一次新闻发布会上提到了自己的新方针，这在某种程度上或许是为了回应国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)、独立经济学家以及其他欧洲人日益激烈的批评。他们认为，她应该在自己长期坚持的平衡联邦预算的政策上做出让步，为了无生气的德国经济注入更多资金。
If Germany in fact gives itself a bit more spending latitude, it would no doubt fuel the demands from its eurozone neighbors, most notably France, to have more budgetary flexibility to stimulate their own economies.
如果德国能在开支方面放得更开，毫无疑问将刺激其欧元区邻国的需求——其中最值得一提的是法国——使它们在预算方面拥有更大的灵活性，以便对本国经济形成刺激。
Mainly, though, its neighbors are counting on Germany to lead by example.
然而，这些邻国主要还是希望德国能够带头。
As the biggest economy in the 18-member eurozone and the one that in recent years was growing enough to at least partly offset economic softness elsewhere in the region, Germany drives demand in the bloc. Other countries in the region have watched with growing alarm as indicators have suggested that the standard-bearer might be stumbling. International economists have repeatedly called for Germany to stop worrying about balancing its budget and instead invest in economic stimulus.
欧元区共有18个成员国，作为其中最大的经济体，德国近年来的经济增长至少能在某种程度上冲抵欧元区其他地方的经济疲软，还刺激了欧元区的需求。有迹象表明，作为领头羊的德国可能正在陷入困境，对于这种状况，该地区的其他国家也开始愈加担心。国际经济学家曾多次呼吁德国不要再担心平衡预算的问题，并转而对经济刺激进行投资。
On Thursday, Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, said in effect that eurozone countries that have enough money should spend it — a clear reference to Germany.
周四，欧洲央行(European Central Bank)行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)称，其实拥有足够资金的欧元区国家应该花掉这些钱——这里明显指的是德国。
“For governments that have fiscal space, then of course it makes sense to use it,” Mr. Draghi said during an appearance at the Brookings Institution in Washington. He drew laughter when he added, “You decide to which country this sentence applies.”
“对于那些拥有财政空间的政府而言，它当然应该去利用这个空间，”德拉吉在华盛顿布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)露面时说。“你来决定，这句话适用于哪个国家。”他说这句话时，人群中传来笑声。
His comments echoed remarks this week from Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund.
他的观点与IMF总裁克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)本周的言论形成了呼应。
Discouraging data in recent days, as well as a warning on Thursday by the nation’s leading economic institutes that German growth was slowing, also seem to have increased Ms. Merkel’s willingness to listen to the advice of Mr. Draghi and Ms. Lagarde.
最近令人沮丧的数据，以及德国主要经济机构周四发出的增长放缓警告，似乎也进一步促使默克尔开始听从德拉吉和拉加德的建议。
Faced with what she acknowledged were “somewhat worsened” forecasts for the German economy, Ms. Merkel said her government was examining how to encourage investment, particularly in the “digital sphere” and the energy sector.
默克尔承认，对于德国经济的预测已经出现了“一些恶化”；面对这种情况，默克尔表示，她的政府正在研究如何鼓励投资，尤其是“数字领域”和能源部门的投资。
Ms. Merkel did not elaborate, but she could have been referring to ways the government could encourage more Internet start-ups. Germany, like Europe in general, has never produced anywhere near as much digital innovation as the United States or South Korea.
默克尔并没有提供详细信息，但她指的可能是政府用来鼓励更多互联网初创企业的方式。与大部分欧洲国家一样，在数码领域，德国所做的创新与美国和韩国的差距还非常大。
The reference to energy suggested a new push to Germany’s program to abandon nuclear power and expand renewable energy sources. It might be a recognition, too, that lower energy costs in the United States have been luring away investment by German companies. While energy prices in Europe have fallen recently, the region is highly dependent on imported gas and oil, often from countries like Russia or in the Middle East that are unstable partners.
所谓能源领域，即进一步推动德国放弃核能、扩大可再生能源使用范围的项目。德国可能已经意识到，美国的能源成本下降一直在分流德国企业的投资。尽管近期欧洲能源价格回落，但该地区依然高度依赖天然气和石油进口，而且往往来自自俄罗斯这样的国家，或者中东地区，这些都不是稳定的合作伙伴。
The German national statistics office said on Thursday that exports slumped 5.8 percent in August compared with July, more than expected. It was the sharpest drop since 2009, in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. And it was the latest in a series of indications that Germany’s export-driven economy was losing momentum, in part because the conflict in Ukraine has made businesses cautious and unwilling to invest.
德国国家统计办公室周四表示，8月的出口环比下滑5.8%，超出预期。这是全球金融危机后，自2009年以来的最大跌幅。一系列迹象表明，德国以出口为导向的经济势头正在减弱。这正是其中的最新一个迹象。德国经济势头减弱，部分是因为乌克兰的冲突导致企业谨小慎微，不愿投资。
American policy makers and economists increasingly are worried that Europe’s economic problems will weigh on domestic growth by reducing demand for exports from the United States and by suppressing price inflation.
美国的政策制定者和经济学家越来越担心，经济问题会促使欧洲减少对来自美国的出口需求，并遏制物价膨胀，从而严重影响美国国内的增长。
Stanley Fischer, the vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, said on Thursday that the Fed was watching closely, but it was premature to consider policy adjustments.
美联储(Federal Reserve)副主席斯坦利·费希尔(Stanley Fischer)周四表示，美联储正在密切注意，但考虑政策调节还为时过早。
“We have to take into account the impact on aggregate demand,” Mr. Fischer said at the Brookings Institution, where he shared the stage with Mr. Draghi. “We’ll be judging what’s happening to output and inflation, and acting on that basis.”
“我们不得不考虑对总需求的影响，”在布鲁金斯学会与德拉吉同台的费希尔说。“我们会判断产出和通货膨胀受到的影响，并据此采取行动。”
In Berlin, Ms. Merkel said her government, a grand coalition of the political center-right and center-left, had discussed the economy at a meeting late on Tuesday.
在柏林，默克尔称自己领导的政府已在周二晚间的一次会议上对经济形势进行了讨论。以她为首的政府，是由中右翼和中左翼政治力量组成的一个大联合政府。
“This course we will now pursue very decisively, and also discuss within Europe,” she added, apparently referring to a meeting of European Union leaders later this month in Brussels.
“我们现在会非常果断地遵循这一方针，也会在欧洲内部进行讨论，”她接着说，指的似乎是将于本月晚些时候在布鲁塞尔举行的欧盟领导人会议。
Ms. Merkel’s remarks may have been less a declaration of policy change than a signal that her thinking on stimulus was evolving.
默克尔的言论或许更多的是一个信号，表明她对刺激的想法正在发生变化，而不是宣告调整政策。
Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, speaking in Washington on Thursday, insisted that “writing checks” was no way for the eurozone to increase growth, according to Reuters. Mr. Schäuble urged France and Italy to do more to overhaul their economies instead.
路透社(Reuters)报道称，周四在华盛顿发表讲话的德国财政部长沃尔夫冈·朔伊布勒(Wolfgang Schäuble)坚持认为，“开支票”不是欧元区提高增长速度的办法。朔伊布勒敦促法国和意大利做出更多努力，改革自己的经济。
His statement could indicate that Germany’s willingness to deploy fiscal stimulus might depend on whether its eurozone partners did their part by deregulating their labor markets and making other politically painful changes to encourage entrepreneurship.
他的声明可能表明，德国是否愿意部署财政刺激措施，或许取决于其在欧元区的合作伙伴能否尽自己的本分，解除对劳动力市场的管制，并进行其他一些在政治上颇为痛苦的改革，以此鼓励创业。
It is clear in any case that the debate in Europe has shifted away from single-minded emphasis on budgetary austerity. Mr. Draghi has also become increasingly frank in expressing the European Central Bank’s determination to use all the powers at its disposal to reverse a slide in inflation to levels considered dangerously low.
无论如何，显然欧洲的讨论，已经不再一心一意地强调预算紧缩了。德拉吉也越来越明确地表示，欧洲央行决意动用一切可能的权力，扭转通货膨胀率的下滑。外界认为，欧洲通货膨胀率正在滑向一个危险的低水平。