Two years ago, Rupert Murdoch was in retreat. His media empire was consumed by a phone-hacking scandal in Britain, threatening to engulf his son and heir-apparent, James. Family resentments boiled over into public view — he was distanced from both his son Lachlan and his daughter Elisabeth, and according to friends his marriage to Wendi Deng was showing signs of stress. Wall Street had grown impatient with his infatuation with newspapers, as had the leadership of the company he built, News Corporation.
两年前，鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)经历了一段节节后退。一桩发生在英国的电话监听丑闻重创了他的媒体帝国，并且似乎要连带影响他的儿子、公众眼中的继任者詹姆斯(James)。他的家庭纠纷不断发酵，进入公众视野——他和儿子拉克伦(Lachlan)以及女儿伊丽莎白(Elisabeth)关系开始疏远，此外，据一些朋友说，他与邓文迪的婚姻出现了紧张的迹象。面对默多克对报业的痴迷，华尔街已失去耐心，他所创立的新闻集团(News Corporation)的领导层同样如此。
Even as his footprint grew wider in news, sports and entertainment, Mr. Murdoch seemed increasingly beleaguered with no next act or obvious successor.
当默多克不断扩大自己在新闻、体育和娱乐领域的势力范围时，他似乎愈加困扰于这样一个事实：没有新动作，或没有明显的继任者。
But in a career full of remarkable comebacks, Mr. Murdoch had one more remaining. He closed the popular News of the World tabloid to stanch the British scandal, and he encouraged James to return to the United States. He split his company in two: News Corporation, to contain his beloved newspapers, and 21st Century Fox, with the lucrative entertainment assets. Wall Street loved the corporate split. Last fall he divorced Ms. Deng, and the scandal has since landed on former executives.
然而，默多克在职业生涯中曾无数次以引人注目的方式东山再起，这一次也是。为了控制英国窃听丑闻的影响，他关停了通俗小报《世界新闻报》(News of the World)，随后，他鼓励詹姆斯回到美国。他把公司拆分为两部分：由他钟爱的各大报纸组成的新闻集团，以及由利润可观的娱乐资产组成的21世纪福克斯公司(21st Century Fox)。此举让华尔街颇为满意。去年秋天，他和邓文迪离了婚。此后，针对窃听丑闻的种种指责落在了前高管的头上。
And on Wednesday, he named both Lachlan and James to senior positions at his companies, all but ensuring that a media conglomerate that has always been run like a small family business would have a Murdoch in charge for years to come.
周三，默多克任命拉克伦和詹姆斯在他的几家公司担任高级职务，这样一来，无非是要确保这家一直像小型家族企业一样运营的公司，未来继续由一位默多克家族的成员管理。
Lachlan, 42, became nonexecutive co-chairman of the News Corporation and 21st Century Fox, returning to his father’s side after a nine-year absence. James, 41, was appointed co-chief operating officer at 21st Century Fox. Mr. Murdoch announced the moves to staff in internal memos that he signed himself.
在缺席了九年之后，现年42岁的拉克伦回到了父亲的身边，他被任命为新闻集团和21世纪福克斯公司的非执行联席董事长。现年41岁的詹姆斯则被任命为21世纪福克斯公司的联席首席运营官。默多克在亲自签名的内部备忘录中向员工宣布了上述决定。
The bold nature of the appointments — the fact that he is able to install his sons in leading roles at companies with a combined market cap of about $83 billion — underscores Rupert Murdoch’s unique standing in American business. Huge public companies are almost never inherited, and in this instance, Mr. Murdoch, at age 83, is elevating not one son, but two. It not only illustrates the force of his personality, but reflects years of calculated moves combined with an ability to live above consequence when trouble looms, as it did during the hacking scandal.
这些大胆的任命——他能够为自己的儿子在一家总市值高达830亿美元（约合5156亿元人民币）的公司安排高级领导职位——突显了鲁伯特·默多克在美国商界的独特地位。大型上市公司几乎从不采取世袭制，而这一次，83岁的默多克提拔的不只是自己的一个儿子，而是两个。这不仅突显了他的个性之强，也反映了他多年以来的精心谋划，以及在困境中安之若素的能力，就像窃听丑闻中展现出的那样。
The moves were broadly in line with Wall Street forecasts, said David Bank, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets. Within 10 years, he said, it is likely that the companies will be run by a new Murdoch. “It feels like, by increasing the operational portfolio for James, they are grooming him for a bigger role,” he said.
加拿大皇家银行资本市场(RBC Capital Markets)的分析师戴维·班克(David Bank)说，他的这些做法与华尔街的预测基本一致。他说，不出10年，公司很可能将由默多克家族的另一位成员掌管。他说，“给人的感觉是，通过增加詹姆斯的运营职责，他们正在训练他承担更大的职责。”
When Lachlan decided in 2005 to leave his post as deputy chief operating officer of News Corporation, after clashes with other senior executives, it was viewed as a rejection of the leadership path for which he was seemingly being groomed. Since then, Rupert Murdoch, who will remain executive chairman of News Corporation and chairman and chief executive of 21st Century Fox, has worked assiduously to bring his oldest son back into the fold, said three people familiar with the process, who spoke on condition of anonymity to describe sensitive family matters.
2005年，在与其他高管发生冲突之后，拉克伦决定辞去新闻集团副首席运营官的职位，当时外界普遍认为 ，默多克似乎一直想培养拉克伦走上领导之路，而这是拉克伦的一种拒绝。三位知情者说，此后，鲁伯特·默多克一直努力让他的长子回到公司。由于涉及敏感的家族事务，这些知情者要求匿名。默多克仍将担任新闻集团的执行主席，以及21世纪福克斯公司的董事长和首席执行官。
A fourth person, who is close to the Murdochs, said Rupert had been “chipping away” at Lachlan for years at family gatherings and investor conferences. Last October the elder Mr. Murdoch posted a photo on Twitter showing the two leaning on boulders in Australia with glasses of wine, Lachlan wearing shorts and his father in a hat and a hoodie.
第四个人和默多克一家走的很近，称默多克多年在家族聚会和投资会议上“贬低”拉克伦。去年10月，默多克在Twitter上发了一张他和拉克伦在澳大利亚的照片。照片中两人手拿红酒背靠巨石，拉克伦穿着短裤，而他的父亲则头戴帽子身着连帽衫。
James, according to two of the people, has also been pressing Lachlan to return. The brothers had become closer as a result of the hacking scandal and then their father’s divorce from Ms. Deng, which removed a significant source of tension between the father and the sons.
根据其中两人所说，詹姆斯同样急切盼望着拉克伦的回归。由于窃听丑闻的发生，两兄弟亲近了许多，之后他们的父亲和邓文迪离婚，这也消除了父子间矛盾的一个重要源头。