The usually grim-faced media mogul practically swooned in his seat. Moments after Jeb Bush delivered what many in the audience described as an unremarkable talk at a conference in Washington, Rupert Murdoch turned to his seatmate, Valerie Jarrett, the White House adviser, to gush over its content and tone.
杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)在华盛顿的一个会议上发表讲话之后，通常表情阴郁的媒体大亨鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)喜悦之情溢于言表。很多听众说这是一个不起眼的讲话，但默多克转向坐在旁边的美国白宫顾问瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)，对讲话的内容和基调大加赞赏。
Mr. Murdoch was pleased that Mr. Bush, the former governor of Florida, had listed the economic benefits of overhauling the nation’s immigration system, confiding in Ms. Jarrett that Mr. Bush, a likely Republican presidential candidate, had said all the right things on the difficult issue, according to three people with firsthand knowledge of the conversation.
佛罗里达州前州长布什可能成为共和党的总统候选人，他在讲话中谈到了改革美国移民体系的经济效益，这让默多克很高兴，他对贾勒特说，布什对这个棘手问题的观点既全面又正确，亲耳听到这次交谈的三个人说。
It was the kind of warm embrace, from the powerful and widely courted owner of The Wall Street Journal and Fox News Channel, that Mr. Murdoch denied Mitt Romney during his 2012 bid for the White House — a snub that Mr. Murdoch is already signaling he will repeat if Mr. Romney runs in 2016.
默多克是《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)和Fox新闻频道(Fox News Channel)的老板，拥有巨大的影响力，受到各方拉拢。他给予布什的这种热心支持，是罗姆尼在2012年角逐总统职位时所没有的——默多克已经表示，如果罗姆尼参加2016年选举，将会再次遭受自己的冷遇。
In the delicate and unseen campaign underway for Mr. Murdoch’s affections in the next presidential campaign, this much is clear: Mr. Romney is out of the running, a reality that has pained and angered his allies.
为下届总统竞选争取默多克的好感，这是一场微妙而无形的战役，其中很明显的一点是：罗姆尼不会入围，这让他的盟友感到痛苦和愤怒。
Presidential politics is rife with grudges and grievances, but it is hard to recall a display of animus as unsubtle as the one Mr. Murdoch and corners of his media empire have unleashed on Mr. Romney in the past few weeks as he has tried to build support for a third presidential run.
总统竞选过程充满了怨恨和不满，但当罗姆尼试图为第三次竞选总统争取支持时，默多克和他的传媒帝国在过去几周内对他表现出了敌意，且直白程度罕有先例。
An editorial in Mr. Murdoch’s most prominent American newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, has called Mr. Romney’s last run a “calamity.” Mr. Murdoch has dismissed Mr. Romney as a “terrible candidate.” And, in a final indignity, Mr. Murdoch has heaped praise on Mr. Romney’s potential rivals, no matter how long a shot they have at the Republican nomination. (“Watch Ben Carson,” Mr. Murdoch wrote on Twitter a few days ago, labeling Mr. Carson, a conservative physician and political neophyte, a “principled brave achiever.”)
默多克最有名的美国报纸《华尔街日报》社论称罗姆尼的上次竞选是“一场灾难”。默多克奚落罗姆尼是一个“糟糕的候选人”。而且，默多克还对罗姆尼做出了最后的羞辱，高度赞扬他的潜在对手，无论他们获得共和党总统候选人提名的可能性有多小。（“关注本·卡森[Ben Carson]，”默多克几天前在Twitter上写道。他把保守派医生和政治新秀卡森形容成一个“有原则的、勇敢的成功者”。）
The disfavor that Mr. Murdoch has showered upon Mr. Romney could have a genuine impact on the early stages of the Republican primary, as Mr. Romney, the party’s nominee in 2012, weighs whether or not to push ahead with a campaign, a decision he is expected to make in the next few weeks.
默多克对罗姆尼的嫌恶，可能会对共和党初选的早期阶段产生切实的影响。罗姆尼曾是共和党2012年的候选人，目前正在权衡是否要参加下届竞选，预计他将在接下来的几周内对此做出决定。
For Mr. Romney and those around him, the memory of Mr. Murdoch’s aversion in 2012, and its expression in forums like The Journal, still stings.
罗姆尼在2012年遭到的厌恶，以及《华尔街日报》等媒体对这种厌恶的表达，仍然让罗姆尼和他周围的人隐隐作痛。
“It was a concern during the campaign, one that had to be actively managed,” said Kevin Madden, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney’s campaign in 2012.
“这是竞选过程中必须积极应对的一个问题，”罗姆尼2012年竞选活动的高级顾问凯文·马登(Kevin Madden)说。
He acknowledged that The Journal’s editorial page, a battering ram against Mr. Romney then and now, “does have an impact in shaping opinions of many within the party.”
他承认，《华尔街日报》社论对罗姆尼的抨击，无论当时还是现在，都“确实影响了党内很多人的看法。”
A few of Mr. Romney’s closest friends have lost their patience with Mr. Murdoch. Ron Kaufman, a longtime confidant and adviser, said Mr. Murdoch “has proven tone deaf” when it comes to politics and bemoaned what he said were the media executive’s ill-informed outbursts.
罗姆尼的一些亲密友人已经对默多克失去了耐心。他的长期密友和顾问罗恩·考夫曼(Ron Kaufman)说，“事实已经证明”默多克在政治方面“不着调”，他还抱怨道，默多克在所知消息粗浅的情况下就语出惊人。
“It’s like trying to make sense of what Trump does sometimes,” Mr. Kaufman said.
“这就如同是要理解特朗普(Trump)有时候的行为一样，”考夫曼说。
“Vacuous” is how Mr. Murdoch has privately described Mr. Romney, said a person close to the executive who, wanting to preserve his relationship with him, would not discuss private conversations for attribution. That remark is a blunter version of those Mr. Murdoch has made in public in the past month or so.
默多克私下形容罗姆尼“草包”，一个与默多克关系密切的人透露。由于想维持这种关系，此人在讨论默多克的私下交谈时不便公开身份。这句话就是默多克在过去一个月左右公开表达过的观点，只不过措辞更加直白。
After reading this article online Tuesday, Mr. Murdoch took to Twitter to advise Mr. Romney to stand down in 2016. “Know and like Mitt Romney as a very nice person,” he wrote. “But he had his chance and seemed to lack big vision for this country.”
周二，在网上看完这篇文章后，默多克在Twitter上建议罗姆尼不要参加2016年的总统大选。“我认识罗姆尼，也喜欢他，他是个非常不错的人，”他写道。“但他已经尝试过了，他似乎缺乏对美国的宏大愿景。”
Mr. Murdoch took special umbrage at Mr. Romney’s handling of immigration in 2012, when the candidate, as an alternative to forced deportation, called for “self-deportation,” in which people who are in the United States illegally would voluntarily return to their home countries and apply to emigrate legally.
默多克对罗姆尼2012年时在移民问题上的立场尤其不满。罗姆尼当时倡导用“自我驱逐出境”来替代强行驱逐，即让那些非法滞留美国的人自愿返回母国，并通过合法途径申请移民。
During a closed-door meeting at the Union League Club in Manhattan that year, Mr. Murdoch called the position foolhardy and asked Mr. Romney to back away from it. Mr. Romney, according to two attendees, replied that he had already softened his language on immigration and that if he abandoned his position he would look like a flip-flopper, a label he loathed. Mr. Murdoch was baffled and dismayed, the attendees said.
当年在曼哈顿的联合俱乐部(Union League Club)举行的一场闭门会议上，默多克称这个立场很鲁莽，并要求罗姆尼放弃主张。据两位与会者回忆，罗姆尼回答说，他已经软化了自己对移民问题的措辞，如果他放弃了这个立场，看起来像是没有主见，他反感被人这么形容。这让默多克感到困惑和错愕，与会者说。
A spokesman for Mr. Romney declined to comment.
罗姆尼的发言人拒绝置评。
Meanwhile, about a half-dozen mainstream Republican candidates are angling for Mr. Murdoch’s blessing, not to mention Hillary Rodham Clinton, who has developed her own growing rapport with him.
与此同时，好几位主流共和党候选人在争取默多克的支持，更不用说希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)了。克林顿与默多克的关系也正变得越来越融洽。
Mr. Murdoch seems eager to play a role in the political process. “I am deeply interested in the future of our country, and I enjoy meeting with potential candidates of both parties,” he said by email, responding to an inquiry about his political activity. “I am keen to hear their views, whether it’s on tax reform, immigration or defense and foreign policy.”
默多克似乎迫切地想在政治进程中发挥作用。“我对我们国家的未来非常感兴趣，我喜欢与两党的潜在候选人会面，”在被问及他的政治活动时，默多克通过电邮表示。“我很希望了解他们的看法，无论是在税制改革、移民，还是防务和外交政策方面。”
Mr. Murdoch remains fond of Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who played his own role in the billionaire’s plans to foil Mr. Romney. In 2011, Mr. Murdoch joined a group of wealthy and influential Republican leaders who encouraged Mr. Christie to enter the presidential race, convinced he was a more exciting alternative to Mr. Romney, and with broader appeal.
默多克仍然对新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)很有好感，此人在默多克挫败罗姆尼的计划中发挥了作用。2011年，默多克连同其他一些富人和有影响的共和党领袖，曾鼓励克里斯蒂参加总统竞选，他们认为，克里斯蒂比罗姆尼更能振奋人心，拥有更加广泛的号召力。
Last May, Mr. Murdoch expressed doubts about the New Jersey governor, saying he expected more damaging stories to emerge about Mr. Christie’s aides in the aftermath of the closing of lanes at the George Washington Bridge. Still, the two men speak by phone about once every month or two, according to advisers close to both.
去年5月，默多克对于克里斯蒂表达了疑虑，称他预料会有更多涉及克里斯蒂助手的负面消息曝光，之前他们曾关闭过乔治华盛顿大桥的行车道。尽管如此，了解这两人的顾问透露，他们还是会一两个月通一次电话。
Mr. Murdoch remains intrigued by Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, privately extolling his appeal to younger voters and his plans for a flat tax. The two meet often in New York and Washington. But Mr. Murdoch worries that Mr. Paul may face an uphill battle in a general election, said a person who has spoken with Mr. Murdoch.
默多克对肯塔基州参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)仍然很关注，他私下称赞了保罗对年轻选民的吸引力，以及他实行扁平税率的计划。两人常常在纽约和华盛顿见面。不过，默多克担心保罗在大选中会迎来艰苦卓绝的战斗，一个曾与默多克交流过的人透露。
Then there is Mr. Bush, who calls The Journal his “paper of record.” The fact that he sat between Mr. Murdoch and Ms. Jarrett at the conference hosted by The Journal in Washington was no accident: Mr. Murdoch requested it. Their ties have deepened over the years. Mr. Bush has collaborated frequently on education issues with Mr. Murdoch’s close friend and adviser Joel I. Klein, the former New York City schools chancellor, who now leads Mr. Murdoch’s education business, Amplify.
再有就是布什。他形容《华尔街日报》是自己的“权威报纸”。该报在华盛顿举行的会议上，他坐在默多克和贾勒特之间并非巧合，而是默多克自己要求的。这些年来，两人的关系变得更加密切。布什在教育方面和默多克的密友兼顾问乔尔·I·克莱因(Joel I. Klein)频频合作。克莱因是纽约市前教育主管，现在是默多克旗下教育部门Amplify的负责人。
Mr. Murdoch, 83, is executive chairman of News Corporation, which owns The Journal, The New York Post and HarperCollins, among other assets, and is chief executive of 21st Century Fox, the parent company of film and television assets including Fox News and the Fox broadcasting network.
默多克现年83岁，是新闻集团(News Corporation)执行主席。该集团旗下拥有《华尔街日报》、《纽约邮报》(The New York Post)和哈珀柯林斯(HarperCollins)等资产。默多克也是21世纪福克斯(21st Century Fox)的首席执行官，这家公司拥有诸多影视资产，包括Fox新闻频道和Fox电视网。