BERLIN — When an 8-year-old girl on the Berlin subway asks her mother if it’s possible to have a male chancellor, you know something profound has changed in Germany. A woman ruling the country is not just the new normal; for millions of German children — including my daughters, ages 7 and 10 — it is the only normal they have ever known.
柏林——在柏林地铁里，当一个八岁的小姑娘问妈妈，德国有没有可能出现一位男总理的时候，你就知道德国已经发生了翻天覆地的变化。女性治理德国不仅成为了新的常态；对于数百万的德国儿童来说（这也包括了我的两个女儿，她们分别是七岁和十岁），这是她们知道的唯一一种常态。
I am thankful for the example that Angela Merkel is providing for my daughters. But her quiet revolution raises questions about what it means to have a woman in charge.
我非常感谢安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)为我的女儿们做出了这样一个表率。但是她不动声色的革命也提出了一些问题：拥有一名女性领袖究竟意味着什么。
Germany is by no means the champion of gender equality. It is still hard for a woman to move up in the business world. In the Global Gender Gap Report of the World Economic Forum, Germany is in 13th place (Iceland is on top and the United States is 22nd).
德国绝对算不上是男女平等的典范。在商业世界里，女性想要晋升依然艰难。在世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)发表的全球性别差异报告(Global Gender Gap Report)中，德国仅名列13（冰岛排名榜首，美国位居22）。
But Ms. Merkel has nevertheless had a dramatic, positive impact on the country. When she became head of the Christian Democratic Union party 13 years ago, German politics was dominated by alpha males. The idea of a woman running for the top job in the chancellor’s office was considered a losing proposition.
即便如此，默克尔还是给这个国家带来了巨大的、积极的影响。13年前，当她成为基督教民主联盟(Christian Democratic Union)的主席时，德国政坛还是由男性精英统治。让一个女人竞选总理这一最高职位，这样的计划必然会失败。
Today those same alpha males, like her main opponent in the last election, Peer Steinbrück of the Social Democrats, seem to have fallen behind the cultural times.
今天，同样这群男性精英似乎在文化上已经落伍了。这里面就包括了上次选举中默克尔的主要竞争对手，社会民主党(Social Democrats)的佩尔·施泰因布吕克(Peer Steinbrück)。
And they have a hard time finding the right tone when running against a woman like Ms. Merkel; every attack that is seen as condescending toward her as a woman costs them dearly with female voters. That’s why Mr. Steinbrück did particularly badly among women.
在跟默克尔这样的女性竞争的时候，这些男性感到很难找到一个合适的基调；一旦对默克尔的攻击被人们视作是对女性的贬低，他们就会失去大量女性选民。这就是为什么施泰因布吕克在女性选民中的表现异常糟糕。
Ms. Merkel’s example has unleashed a surge of female politicians. In 2005, when she was first elected chancellor, only one woman had ever been at the helm of one of Germany’s 16 states, the breeding ground for national politics. Today there are four acting female governors, and many of the hopefuls vying for leadership positions in German parties are women.
默克尔的表率，带动了一批女性政治家的崛起。2005年，当她首次出任总理的时候，德国16个州里仅出现过一位女州长，而州政府正是政治人物们走向全国的起点。现如今，全国共有四位在任女州长，同时，竞逐德国政党领袖席位的明日之星中，很大一部分是女性。
Most importantly, Ms. Merkel has changed residual stereotypes. A century ago many people believed that women were too emotional, and needed a male guardian, a prejudice that faded but never quite disappeared.
最重要的是，默克尔改变了人们残存的偏见。一个世纪以前，许多人都相信女性过于情绪化，她们需要一位男性保护人；这种偏见虽然不那么主流了，却从未消失。
Ms. Merkel, however, has flipped that assumption on its head, coming across as a solid anchor of rationality in what is at times a sea of male irrationality.
但是默克尔却推翻了这个臆断。在许多男性政客不理智的时刻，她表现出惊人的理性，就像是一个坚定的锚点。
In 2008, after the outbreak of the Russian war with Georgia, I traveled with her to Tbilisi to meet the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili. Ms. Merkel had just come from a meeting with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, and she briefed journalists in the plane about how she saw the crisis. What she said remains confidential, but she seemed to feel those two men didn’t have their emotions under control, and were therefore leading their countries into disaster.
2008年，在俄罗斯和格鲁吉亚的战争爆发之后，我随同默克尔前往第比利斯，会晤时任格鲁吉亚总统的米哈伊尔·萨卡什维利(Mikheil Saakashvili)。当时，默克尔刚刚结束与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的会议，在飞机上向记者们简要介绍了她对于这场危机的看法。她说的内容仍属机密，但是她似乎感到，这两位男性首脑并没有控制好自己的情绪，由此把他们的国家带入了灾难。
The female chancellor as a refuge of cold reason was also a leitmotif of the euro crisis. Consider some of her male European peers at the time: Silvio Berlusconi, who can’t get his libido under control; the mercurial Nicolas Sarkozy; the cast of oscillating Central European populists, like Viktor Orban of Hungary.
这位总能在艰难时刻坚持冷静思考的女总理也是欧债危机的中流砥柱。看看当时欧洲国家的其他男性首脑：无法控制自己性欲的西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)；反复无常的尼古拉·萨科齐(Nicolas Sarkozy)；像匈牙利维克托·欧尔班(Viktor Orban)那样摇摆不定的中欧民粹主义者。
Or take the Greek prime minister George A. Papandreou, who, after reaching a refinancing agreement with international partners, suddenly called for a national referendum on his work; after chaos ensued, he had to step down. Ms. Merkel would have never made such a hot-headed mistake.
再看看希腊总理乔治·A·帕潘德里欧(George A. Papandreou)，他跟国际合作伙伴达成再融资协议之后，突然要求对他的工作成果进行全民公投；接踵而至的混乱导致他不得不下台。默克尔永远都不会犯下这样头脑发热的错误。
Unlike some other leading politicians, Ms. Merkel is able to check her ego at the door when she enters one of the endless negotiations at European summits. “She just focuses on the issues at hand and is not as vain as some other heads of states and governments,” said Silke Mülherr, a colleague of mine at Die Welt who covered European politics in Brussels.
跟其他一些知名政治人物不一样，默克尔在欧盟峰会参与无休止的谈判时，能够做到理性可观。“她只专注于眼前的问题，不像其他国家和政府的首脑那样好虚荣。”西尔克·穆尔赫(Silke Mülherr)说。他是我在《世界报》(Die Welt)的一个同事，在布鲁塞尔报道过欧洲政治问题。
Let the alpha males fight it out, then take advantage of the holes they dug up for themselves — that’s one of Merkel’s tactics.
让男性精英们去折腾吧，然后好好利用他们给自己挖下的坑——这是默克尔的战术之一。 And of course it helps that they always underestimate the “little girl,” as former Chancellor Helmut Kohl once called her. That was before the “little girl” drove him from power in the Christian Democratic Union.
而且，他们总是低估这位“小女孩”。德国前总理赫尔穆特·科尔(Helmut Kohl)曾经称默克尔为“小女孩”，直到“小女孩”将他从基督教民主联盟领袖的位子上赶下。
Part of what makes Ms. Merkel effective, both as a conservative leader and as a role model, is that she doesn’t stress women’s issues.
无论是作为保守派领袖，还是作为一个榜样，默克尔成功的原因之一，就是她不强调妇女问题。
But that concerns many traditional feminists. “Among women there is annoyance at the fact that she has made a lot of concessions unfavorable to women,” said Alice Schwarzer, editor of Emma, a feminist magazine. “She doesn’t want to stress the women’s aspect in order not to irritate people further.”
但是，这令很多传统的女权主义者感到不安。“默克尔做出了很多对女性不利的让步，这让一些女性恼火。”爱丽丝·施瓦策尔(Alice Schwarzer)说。她是女权主义杂志《艾玛》(Emma)的一名编辑。“默克尔不想强调女性问题，以免进一步惹恼大家。”
The result is something of a paradox. Young professional women in Germany respect the ease with which she fills the post, as if it should have been that way all along. That naturalness, they say, has helped them imagine themselves in similar top positions.
结果就形成了某种悖论。在德国，年轻的职业女性敬佩默克尔担任总理那种从容不迫的风格，就好像总理本来就应该是那样的。她们说，那种自然的感觉，让她们觉得自己也能担当这样的高职。
But also they find it hard to identify with her, because her biography doesn’t offer a solution to a problem on the minds of many well-educated young women: how to combine a rewarding professional career with children and family.
但她们也发现很难对默克尔产生认同感，因为很多受过良好教育的年轻女性，心里都有这样一个问题，如何在精彩的事业跟孩子和家庭方面做到两者兼得，而默克尔的传记并没有提供什么解决方案。
Ms. Merkel doesn’t have children, and never had to reconcile home and career. This is a particularly tough issue in business, where it can be harder to carve out space for a life outside of work, and where sexist stereotypes still have currency.
默克尔没有孩子，从来不需要解决家庭和事业间的矛盾。而在商界，这是一个尤为棘手的问题：工作以外更难有多少生活空间，而且具有性别歧视色彩的模式化看法仍然盛行。
So what does Ms. Merkel mean for our little girls and others, who have never consciously experienced a male chancellor? They will consider it very odd when a man finally takes over the chancellor’s office. It will, hopefully, not even cross their minds that they might not be fit for the highest positions because of their gender.
那么，对于我们的小女孩们，以及那些懂事以来就没有见过男总理的人来说，默克尔又意味着什么？当终于有男性成为德国总理的时候，他们可能会觉得很奇怪。希望他们的脑海从来没有闪过这样的念头：他们可能因为自身的性别而不适合那些最高的职位。
And as a father, I hope that after another term of the Merkel administration, even Germany’s male-dominated corporate culture will begin to open up — and not only to women like Angela Merkel, who has proven that she can beat men at their own game.
作为一名父亲，我希望，默克尔政府的另一个任期结束后，以男性为主导的德国企业文化也会开始变得开放——而且不仅是向安格拉·默克尔那样的女性开放。默克尔已经证明，她可以在男人主导的游戏中击败男人。