BERLIN — About 18 months ago, Chancellor Angela Merkel was the wronged American ally whose cellphone number was among data sucked up by American intelligence as it kept watch on Europeans.
柏林——大约18个月前，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)还是一个受到不公正对待的美国盟友，负责监视欧洲的美国情报人员收集的数据中，包括了她本人的手机号码。
“Spying among friends — that is simply not done,” she said after the discovery in autumn 2013, to a sympathetic domestic audience.
“对朋友使用间谍手段——这无疑是不妥的，”她在2013年秋天事发后对着心怀同情的本国观众说。
Within the past two weeks, the tide has turned. Ms. Merkel is back in the spotlight over spying. This time it is Germany’s foreign intelligence service, known here as the B.N.D., that is being accused of monitoring European companies and perhaps individuals. Further, the reports said it was done at the behest of the National Security Agency, the United States intelligence organization.
过去两周里，事情发生了逆转。默克尔再一次因为谍报事件成为热点人物。而这一次是德国的对外情报机构联邦情报局(BND)被指对欧洲企业实施监控，也许还包括个人。另外，相关报道称这些活动是在美国情报机构国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的授意下进行的。
Critics have seized on the spying allegations, noting a whiff of hypocrisy emanating from Berlin, given the German outrage over the American program. On Tuesday, Austria was the offended party, filing a legal complaint against the German and American intelligence agencies over suspicions that it was being spied on, Reuters reported.
批评人士抓住了谍报活动的指控，称此事表明了柏林的虚伪嘴脸，毕竟他们曾对美国的情报项目大为光火。据路透社报道，本周二，作为被侵犯一方的奥地利以怀疑被监视为由，对德国和美国情报机构发起了法律申诉。
Ms. Merkel’s maxim about not spying on friends means “she must by measured by it,” said Stefan Kornelius, author of a biography of the chancellor and the foreign editor of the Süddeutsche Zeitung.
撰写了一本默克尔传记的《南德意志报》(Süddeutsche Zeitung)外国新闻编辑斯特凡·科内柳斯(Stefan Kornelius)说，既然立下了不刺探友人的准则，“她自己也必须要遵守。”
Government officials are also scrambling to head off accusations by some German news outlets and opposition figures that Ms. Merkel’s government and some of her allies failed their constitutional duty to supervise the intelligence services and inform Parliament of the services’ activities.
政府官员纷纷出面驳斥某些德国新闻媒体和反对派人物的指责，这些人说默克尔政府以及它的部分盟友没能履行宪法职责，对情报工作进行监督，并就相关机构的活动向国会做出说明。
Gregor Gysi, the vocal leader of the former Communists and other far-leftists in the opposition Left party, accused Ms. Merkel of “treason.”
言辞激烈的前共产党领袖格雷戈尔·季希(Gregor Gysi)和其他一些左翼反对党的极左派指责默克尔“叛国”。
The accusation was angrily rebutted on Monday by Gerhard Schindler, head of the B.N.D. He dismissed as “absolutely absurd” any suggestion that his agency was “a compliant tool” of the Americans.
BND负责人格哈德·辛德勒(Gerhard Schindler)在周一愤怒地反驳了这一指控。他表示，凡是声称他的部门“听命于”美国人的言论，都是“彻底的无稽之谈”。
The details of what the German government did or did not do, in collusion with the American government, remain murky, caught up in the secrecy inherent in security matters. But the federal prosecutor is examining whether to begin a formal investigation. The regular parliamentary committee that oversees all intelligence services and a special parliamentary inquiry into the National Security Agency are also seeking more details and questioning key officials.
由于安全事务本身固有的保密特性，德国政府究竟与美国政府串谋做了什么，没做什么，具体细节始终模糊不清。但联邦检察官正在考虑是否展开正式调查。一个负责监督所有情报部门的议会常设委员会，以及一个针对美国国家安全局的议会专项调查组，也在试图了解更多详情，并对主要官员进行质询。
The matter raises anew the questions that flared in 2013 with the release of American government documents by Edward J. Snowden, a former N.S.A. contractor, revealing the extent of American spying operations domestically and abroad. In the United States, Congress is now poised to reel in some of the surveillance measures that were adopted after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
此事再次掀起了2013年的一段争议，当时前NSA承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)公开了美国政府文件，揭露美国在本土和海外的大规模谍报活动。在美国，国会目前正准备对9·11袭击后采用的部分监控手段加以规限。
But Germans reacted with revulsion when the extent of American spying on Europeans was revealed. Germany’s memory of the Nazi and Communist regimes that spied on their citizens gave the revelations a special edge. Mr. Snowden is more of a popular hero here than elsewhere in Europe, and anti-N.S.A. sentiment remains high.
然而，当美国在欧洲的谍报工作被揭发时，德国人做出了剧烈反应。纳粹和共产党政权监控百姓的往事，让他们对这类事格外紧张。相比在欧洲其他国家，斯诺登在德国的形象更像一个受人爱戴的英雄，这里的反NSA情绪始终高涨。
At the same time, attacks by Islamist militants in Europe and the threat of homegrown extremists have challenged the intelligence equation in Europe. The French government is expanding its intelligence services’ powers to combat terrorism.
与此同时，欧洲的伊斯兰极端武装分子发动的袭击，以及来自本土的极端主义威胁，正在挑战欧洲的情报格局。法国政府正在扩充其情报机构的力量，以打击恐怖主义。
Ms. Merkel, asked on Monday whether her maxim about spying among friends still applied, said this was an “important” question and added, “I think the answer should be that it should not occur.”
在周一被问及不刺探友人的准则是否还有效时，默克尔说这是个“重要的”问题，并说“我想答案应该是，这样的事不该发生”。
But she recalled that she noted in 2013 that it was necessary to strike a balance between liberty and security and that this “will continue to be my job.”
但她又提起自己在2013年曾说，在自由和安全之间必须找到一种平衡，而那“将始终是我的职责所在”。
“There is an innate tension,” she added. “We must improve what needs to be improved, through reports to the parliamentary control bodies. But on the other hand, even if it is not so popular right now, it is part of their job for our intelligence services, especially the B.N.D., that they must and will cooperate internationally to protect the bodies and lives of 80 million Germans as best they can.”
“这里面存在一种固有的紧张状态，”她接着说。“我们必须藉由向议会辖下机构的汇报，对需要改进的地方做出改进。但与此同时，即便现在不怎么受欢迎，他们终归是在履行我们的情报职责，尤其是BND，他们必须进行国际合作，尽一切可能保护8000万德国人民的机构和人身安全。”
“First and foremost,” she said, that means cooperation with the National Security Agency.
她说，这“首先”意味着要与NSA合作。
Thomas de Maizière, a close Merkel ally who ran her Chancellery from 2005 to 2009 and was thus responsible for the intelligence services, has dismissed the spying allegations. Mr. de Maizière, now the interior minister, said on Monday that he was involved in decisions against deepening certain ties with the National Security Agency in 2008, in order to protect German interests.
默克尔的亲密盟友托马斯·德梅齐埃(Thomas de Maizière)曾于2005至2009年间担任她的幕僚长，也就是说他也要负责情报机构。他否认了关于间谍活动的指控。目前担任内政部长的德梅齐埃周一表示，为了保护德国的利益，他曾参与2008年的一些决策，以反对在某些方面加强与NSA联系。
Mr. de Maizière is to testify this week before the parliamentary inquiry. Committee members have demanded that the government release a list of the data the B.N.D. gave to the National Security Agency.
本周，德梅齐埃将在德国议会的质询中发表证词。委员会成员要求政府发布一份清单，罗列BND曾交给NSA的数据。