Some sensible medical advice: Jamming cigarette butts up your nostrils will not ward off the acrid smog enveloping China, and is positively risky for your health. Thus some Chinese newspapers have told readers, in the most giddying example yet of how chronic air pollution is forcing citizens to desperate inventiveness.
一则明智的医学建议：往鼻孔里塞香烟过滤嘴不能抵挡席卷中国的呛人烟雾，反而会带来很大的健康风险。这就是部分中国报章告诉读者的事情。长期的空气污染逼得民众搞起了绝望的发明创造，这是迄今为止最让人感觉晕眩的例子了。
Rumors have spread over the Internet in China that taking cigarette filters and inserting one into each nostril can block the tiny PM2.5 particles of pollution that make breathing difficult and cause respiratory ailments. Some people have posted pictures online demonstrating the technique, although it was often unclear whether the pictures were in jest or in earnest.
中国互联网上随处可见的流言称，把香烟过滤嘴掐下来，滤芯分别插入两个鼻孔，就能阻挡令呼吸困难并导致呼吸系统疾病的细颗粒物PM2.5污染。有人还在网上贴了照片，展示这一窍门。不过，往往很难搞清这些照片究竟是在搞笑还是认真的。
“A magical fix for coping with the haze,” said one message that has been repeated many thousands of times on Sina Weibo, a microblog site that is China’s most popular equivalent of Twitter. “Take two cigarette filters, strip away the wrapping paper, and insert them in the nostrils.”
在中国最流行的类Twitter网站新浪微博上，一名用户写道，“对付雾霾神技能：找两根香烟，把过滤嘴掐下来，剥掉外皮，滤芯插入鼻孔即可。”这条微博被转载了成千上万次。
Rumors about the do-it-yourself remedy recently became widespread enough that a couple of newspapers have forcefully warned readers not to take to the streets with cigarette ends poking from their noses.
这种自己动手的救助办法最近流传甚广，以致于好几家报纸强烈警告读者，不要鼻孔里塞着香烟滤嘴上街。
“Doctors have stated that this technique will definitely obstruct air entering the nasal cavity, and will affect normal breathing,” the Changsha Evening News, a paper from Hunan Province in southern China, said on Tuesday. Threads from the filters might also enter users’ lungs, creating more complications, the report said.
南方省份湖南的《长沙晚报》周二发表文章称，“医生表示，如此做法肯定会阻碍空气进入鼻腔，影响人的正常呼吸。”文中还说，滤嘴纤维可能被吸入肺部，带来其他病变。
To overcome any doubts, the intrepid reporter tried the technique.
为了打消读者的疑虑，无畏的记者还亲身体验了一把。
“This reporter tried the advice from Internet users and discovered that after inserting cigarette filters into his nostrils, breathing was affected and there was also the odor of tobacco,” the report said.
“记者按照网友说法实验发现，鼻孔塞入香烟滤嘴后呼吸很受影响，而且还有一股烟草气味。”文中这样写道。
On Monday, the Beijing Youth Daily gave similar advice from a respiratory doctor at an air force hospital: “Just from the effects on breathing, this method should not be used,” he said.
周一的时候，《北京青年报》给出了某空军医院呼吸内科医生的类似建议：“单从影响呼吸这一点上，这个方法就不可取，”他说。
But some of the messages on the Internet about the method appeared to be rueful satire, rather than serious advice.
不过，网上关于这种方法的一些帖子似乎并不是严肃的建议，而是一种表达遗憾的嘲讽。
“There’s no doubt you die if you don’t breathe, but constantly breathing amounts to slow suicide,” said one comment on Sina Weibo. “Seems I should meekly stick two cigarette filters up my nose.”
新浪微博上的一则评论称，“停止呼吸必死无疑，不停呼吸属于慢性自杀，看来我还是乖乖把俩香烟过滤嘴塞鼻孔里吧。”
Serious entrepreneurs have also spied a market in the goop of dust, vehicle exhaust and smoke from coal plants mixed with fog. One Beijing company has developed an “invisible mask” that offers fashion-conscious residents a way of filtering their nostrils without cigarette butts, Tech in Asia reported.
正经生意人也从一片尘土、汽车尾气、煤电厂灰烟与雾的混合体中窥探出了新市场。亚洲科技网站(Tech in Asia)报道，一家北京企业开发了一款“隐形口罩”，给时尚达人提供了不用往鼻孔里塞香烟滤嘴的净化方式。
The smog is likely to hang over much of China throughout the winter, and experts have said that a real respite could be many years off. But a report in the People’s Daily, the main newspaper of the ruling Communist Party, on Wednesday offered a kind of solace: it told readers that rumors of a link between the haze and impending earthquakes were untrue.
中国的大片区域可能整个冬季都笼罩在烟雾之中，而且专家表示，真正好转或许要等很多年。不过，主要党报《人民日报》周三提供了些许安慰：它告诉读者，雾霾预示着地震的传言不实。
“Current research has not found any necessary or clear link between haze and the occurrence of earthquakes,” said the paper. Phew.
文中称，“目前研究还没有发现雾霾与地震的发生存在必然或显著联系。”真是让人松了一口气呀。