When it appeared on Orchard Street in 2012, Mission Chinese Food was slightly unreal. It didn’t seem to follow the rules, or even know that there were rules. The health department and other city agencies knew, though, and after just 18 months, they pulled the plug on Danny Bowien’s hallucinatory all-ages chile-pepper party.
2012年，龙山小馆(Mission Chinese Food)出现在果园街(Orchard Street)上时，有点让人难以置信。它似乎不遵守规定，甚至不知道那些规定的存在。不过，纽约市的卫生部等机构可是知道那些规定的。仅仅18个月后，他们就关掉了丹尼·博温(Danny Bowien)受到各个年龄层喜爱、会让人产生幻觉的辣椒派对。
At its new address on East Broadway, there is a two-level dining room with half-moon booths of brushed red velvet under bistro mirrors. And a well-appointed kitchen in the basement, not Orchard Street’s narrow galley behind plexiglass.
新店开在东百老汇，就餐区有两层，设有半月形隔断，隔断的座位铺着红色天鹅绒，墙上装有镜子。设施齐全的厨房设在地下室，与果园街老店藏在树脂玻璃后面的狭小厨房大不相同。
While very few items on the old menu couldn’t be knocked together by one person with a wok in less than five minutes, many dishes now speak of ample counter space and many hands, including those of Angela Dimayuga, the executive chef. (Mr. Bowien is the chef and owner.) Of her many contributions to Mission Chinese Food, the one everybody wants to talk about is Josefina’s house special chicken. Josefina is Ms. Dimayuga’s grandmother, a Filipina, and her chicken is no short-order stir fry. The bird is roasted with a stuffing of fresh chorizo, raisins, olives, sweet pickles and butter. It is carried to the table on a silver platter, feet splayed out, head tucked in. When the torso is cut into thick slices, the center of each one has the white-and-yellow ring of a hard-cooked egg. Everything about Josefina’s chicken is great.
旧菜单上的绝大多数菜只需要一名厨师用一口锅就能在五分钟内做好，但是新菜单上的很多菜都要占用操作台上的很大空间和很多人手，包括执行大厨安杰拉·迪马玉加(Angela Dimayuga)。（博温是大厨兼店主）在她对龙山小馆的诸多贡献中，每个人都想谈论的是约瑟菲娜(Josefina)的家庭特制烤鸡。约瑟菲娜是迪马玉加的祖母，菲律宾人，她的鸡绝不是大火翻炒出来的。鸡腔内塞入新鲜的西班牙辣香肠、葡萄干、橄榄、甜腌菜和黄油等填料烘烤。烤好后，放在银质长浅盘上上桌，鸡爪摊开，鸡头塞进胸腔。鸡身切成厚块，每块的中央是一块由蛋青和蛋黄组成的煮蛋切片。约瑟菲娜烤鸡无论从哪个角度讲，都很棒。
The recipe is most likely of Spanish descent. This should make it an idiosyncratic fixture in a Chinese restaurant, but idiosyncrasy is to Mission Chinese Food what the Bloomin’ Onion is to an Outback Steakhouse.
它的食谱很有可能源自西班牙。对于一个中餐馆来说，它应该是特色菜，但是特色菜之于龙山小馆就像洋葱花球(Bloomin’ Onion)之于澳拜克牛排馆(Outback Steakhouse)。
In the original San Francisco incarnation, as well as in the first New York location, most of the idiosyncrasies looped around Sichuan cuisine. Many of the old dishes, marked as much by Mr. Bowien’s freethinking approach as by the burn and tingle of chiles and Sichuan peppercorns, have migrated to the new restaurant: the kung pao pastrami; the galvanizing lamb ribs with sweet, gooey dates; the Chongqing chicken wings so acutely spicy and flavorful they make Buffalo wings seem as dangerous as an animal cracker.
最初的旧金山龙山小馆以及在纽约开的第一家龙山小馆都是主打川菜。以前的很多菜最大的特点是博温的自由发挥以及辣椒和花椒的灼热感和刺痛感，这些在新餐馆里都得到继承：宫保熏牛肉；羊排覆以甜黏的红枣；重庆鸡翅辣味十足，而且很入味，相比之下，布法罗鸡翅的辣度就像动物饼干一般，不值一提。
But this kind of scorched-tongue cooking has become a minor motif in Mr. Bowien and Ms. Dimayuga’s menu, which goes on for pages. Fewer than a third of the items are marked by red flames blazing from what looks like a pair of cheeks, and not the ones you kiss your grandmother on. The rest is not just less fire-spewing but more varied than before, drawing from regions beyond Sichuan and countries beyond China.
不过，这种烧灼舌头的烹饪方式已经变成博温和迪马玉加菜单上的一个次要主题。厚厚的菜单上只有不到三分之一的菜品标记着燃烧的红色火焰，底图好像是一对脸颊，可不是你亲吻祖母时她那种泛红的脸颊。其余的那些菜不会让你辣得冒火，比过去更显多样化，它们不仅不是川菜，甚至不是中国菜。
Some of it is even nuanced. Splashing around in a gentle, aromatic pool of chamomile, almond milk and saffron, the steamed Napa cabbage has more in common with a chai latte than with Mr. Bowien’s pork-drenched mapo tofu. There is a startlingly well-calibrated, nori-sprinkled salad of red cabbage in a Caesar-esque vinaigrette of soy, miso, sesame and anchovy. Konnichiwa, Caesar! Another salad waves toward Vietnam, with green papaya threads, roasted peanuts, sliced banana blossoms and shreds of lightly smoked chicken.
有些菜甚至是细腻入微的。蒸白菜放入用洋甘菊、杏仁乳和藏红花做成的柔和芳香的汤里，它与博温的猪肉麻婆豆腐不太像，倒是与印度奶茶有更多共同之处。紫甘蓝沙拉的调味汁是按照严格的比例精心调制的，包括酱油、味噌、芝麻和凤尾鱼，上面还撒着海苔，有点像日本料理和凯撒沙拉的结合（请多关照，凯撒！）。还有一道向越南致意的沙拉，里面有青木瓜丝、烤花生、香蕉切片和微熏过的鸡肉丝。
The perfume of dill, mint and basil rises up from a bowl of cellophane noodles in deeply aromatic lamb soup. Grassy, astringent matcha is sprinkled over green-tea noodles with scallions and ginger. Fried rice with sweet and tender lumps of lobster is fragrant with coconut oil.
小茴香、薄荷和罗勒的香味从一碗浓香的羊肉汤粉中散发出来。绿茶面上撒着涩涩的草绿色抹茶粉，还加有葱和姜。炒饭里放入甜嫩龙虾肉和椰子油，香味扑鼻。
All of these are smart, layered and vibrant enough to win over anybody who shows up thinking that Mission Chinese Food is still in the business of knocking your head against the wall until you smile or pass out or both. It’s easier to taste the quieter flavors now. With the extra space and staff, the kitchen pays some attention to the order in which dishes arrive, so it can keep the more antisocial ones in solitary confinement.
所有这些烹饪方法都很明智，且具有层次和活力。有些顾客来这里用餐时以为如今的龙山小馆依然是供应让你辣到面带微笑或晕倒（或两者兼具）的菜肴，而这些新颖的烹饪方法会把他们全部征服。现在，更易品尝出菜式中更为温和的味道。因为厨房的空间更大，人手更多，所以能更注重上菜的次序，把那些比较反社会的菜式单独奉上。
There is a wine list now, stocked with semi-obscure natural wines. In the five months the restaurant has been open, servers have memorized a few stock phrases, like “it goes well with our food” (imagine that), but have not learned which part of the corkscrew will remove a metal bottle cap, or when to stop pouring an unfiltered wine to keep sediment from sliding into the glass.
新餐馆也有了酒单，供应有些浑浊的天然葡萄酒。在餐馆开业的五个月里，服务员们已经记住了一些套话，比如“这跟我们的食物很搭”（你自己想象一下），不过他们可能还没弄清瓶塞钻的哪一侧能移除金属瓶盖，或者应该何时停止倾倒未经过过滤的葡萄酒，以免沉渣滑进玻璃杯。
I liked taking a hammer to a clay brick to reveal a whole duck confit stuffed with sticky rice and chestnuts, and liked the rich and oily meat I tore from the legs, but I didn’t love the dry breast meat, and I wouldn’t mind taking a hammer to the $100 price tag. I also won’t be handing over another $150 for a smoked prime rib topped with a king crab leg, a garnish that just seemed like bait for the hedge-fund crowd. For far less money, the celery with hazelnuts that was so nicely stir-fried one time was nearly raw the next. I might have loved the just-cooked black kale with pickled plums if not for the overpowering brininess.
我喜欢拿着锤子敲开一层陶土，露出一整只塞有糯米和栗子填料的油封鸭，我也喜欢从鸭腿上撕下浓郁油滑的肉，但我不喜欢干干的鸭胸肉，而且我也想拿着那把锤子把那100美元的价签敲碎。我也不会再花150美元点那道熏制牛肋排，上面放着一条帝王蟹腿，这个装饰品似乎是给对冲基金经理准备的诱饵。相比之下，芹菜炒榛子的价钱要便宜得多，这道菜有一次炒得特别好吃，不过第二次炒得又太生。要是没那么咸的话，我可能也会喜欢微烹的黑色羽衣橄榄和梅子。
But these are normal lapses for what has become, against the odds and to almost everybody’s benefit, a nearly normal restaurant. The hallucinations may have stopped, but Mission Chinese Food is still a trip.
不过，对一个基本正常（这实现起来很难，而且对几乎所有人来说都是好事）的餐馆来说，这些都是正常的疏漏。错觉也许已经消散，但是龙山小馆仍是值得一去的地方。