LOUISVILLE, Miss. — Ilene Estes sorted through the rubble atop a concrete slab here that used to be her home of 46 years. Like thousands of others in the South whose homes and lives have been devastated by a series of deadly tornadoes this week, she was stunned and weary. Even in parts of the country where tornadoes are commonplace, when they directly hit your street, they are uncommon terrors, their savagery discovered as if for the first time.
密西西比州路易斯维尔——艾琳·埃斯蒂斯(Ilene Estes)在一块混凝土板上方的废墟中翻找。这里曾是她生活了46年的家。本周，一系列杀伤力极大的龙卷风摧毁了美国南部成千上万人的住房和生活。与遭灾的其他人一样，埃斯蒂斯深感震惊，疲惫不堪。就算是在龙卷风经常光顾的地区，当它们正面冲击自家街道的时候，仍是无以伦比地恐怖，而它们的巨大威力仿佛第一次为人所知。
“This just isn’t the kind of thing we’ve ever experienced,” said Ms. Estes, 74. “We have had storms in the rural areas around us, so we know what they can do, but I never could have imagined it would happen to us. I’ve always seen those kinds of things on TV, but never in person.”
“这绝对不是我们经历过的那种，”74岁的埃斯蒂斯说。“我们周围的乡村地区有过风暴，所以我们知道它们的能量，但我从来不敢想会降临到我们头上。我总在电视上看到这种事，但是从没亲身经历过。”
Every year, people in the southern and central United States brace for tornado season in a ritual of preparation and anticipation that has become a routine part of life, much as Floridians are used to hurricanes and Californians are accustomed to earthquakes. Those who live in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and other parts of the South prone to violent tornadoes even have a name for the region: Dixie Alley, a smaller counterpart to the more famous Tornado Alley, which includes parts of Oklahoma and Kansas.
每年，美国南部和中部的居民都用例行公事的准备工作和心理预期来迎接龙卷风季节，而这已成为生活中的惯例，就好比佛罗里达人习惯了飓风、加利福尼亚人习惯了地震。住在阿肯色、路易斯安那、密西西比等易受猛烈龙卷风影响的南部地区的居民甚至给自己的家乡起了个绰号：狄克西走廊(Dixie Alley)。它类似于影响更大、更出名的龙卷风走廊(Tornado Alley)。后者包括俄克拉何马州和堪萨斯州的局部地区。
But in the aftermath of a series of tornadoes throughout the South and Midwest that have left at least 35 people dead and thousands of homes and businesses destroyed since Sunday, the reality has become painfully clear: No one, even in Dixie Alley, gets used to it. Nothing is routine, and nothing can be taken for granted, even safe rooms. In Mayflower and Vilonia, two of the hardest-hit towns in Arkansas, at least three people appeared to have been killed in safe rooms in their homes, including a 72-year-old woman who died after debris tore through the door of her room.
周日以来，一连串龙卷风横扫美国南部和中西部，导致至少35人死亡，数千房屋与店铺被毁。风暴过后，现实变得令人痛苦地清晰起来：没有人真的习惯了，哪怕是在狄克西走廊。没有什么事情算是惯例，什么都不能想当然，就算是有安全房间也一样。在阿肯色州受灾最严重的梅弗劳尔和维洛尼亚，至少三人似乎是在自家安全房间里遇难的，其中一名72岁的女性在瓦砾击穿房门后身亡。
After killing at least 15 people in Arkansas on Sunday, the violent storm system moved east and struck parts of Alabama, Mississippi and Tennessee on Monday, killing at least 17 people. The Mississippi Emergency Management Agency said 12 people had died there. Fatalities have also been reported in Iowa and Oklahoma.
周日在阿肯色州导致至少15人死亡后，强风暴系统又向东移动，周一袭击了阿拉巴马、密西西比和田纳西三州的局部地区，导致至少17人遇难。密西西比紧急事务管理署(Mississippi Emergency Management Agency)表示，该州有12人身亡。艾奥瓦州与俄克拉何马州也报道了死亡消息。
At least nine of the deaths in Mississippi were in Winston County, which includes Louisville and is about 95 miles south of Tupelo. Eight of those deaths were in Louisville, an industrial town of about 7,000 known for its steel-lift manufacturing plant and lumber facilities.
在密西西比的遇难者中，至少九人来自图珀洛市以南约95英里外（约合120公里）的温斯顿县。路易斯维尔就位于该县，占了其中的八人。这是一座工业城镇，人口约为7000，以生产钢质电梯的工厂和伐木设施闻名。
“To see the destruction here, for the fatality number to be as low as it is, it’s truly amazing,” said Will Hill, the mayor of Louisville. “We had people sign into the courthouse’s shelter, so the number of just how many people were actually there will be coming out in the days ahead. I actually was at the courthouse right when the storm was over, and it was packed.”
“看到这里的破坏情况，遇难人数能这么低，实在是令人惊讶，”路易斯维尔市长威尔·希尔(Will Hill)说。“我们当时让大家到法院的庇护所报到，所以，待在那里的确切人数这几天就能出来。风暴刚过去的时候，我也正好在法院，里头挤满了人。”
Brian Corbett, a spokesman for Alabama’s emergency management agency, said it had confirmed three deaths — two in Limestone County and one in Tuscaloosa County — but was seeing reports of additional fatalities. The University of Alabama said that one of the dead was a student, John Servati, a member of its swim team.
阿拉巴马紧急事务管理署的发言人布莱恩·科比特(Brian Corbett)表示，该署确认了三人遇难——两人来自莱姆斯通县、一人来自塔斯卡卢萨县——并正在核实其余的死亡报道。阿拉巴马大学(University of Alabama)宣布，其中一名遇难者是该校学生：校游泳队成员约翰·塞尔瓦蒂(John Servati)。
In Mississippi, even as Ms. Estes and other residents of Louisville sorted through the rubble on Tuesday, there was already talk of rebuilding. Nobody discussed moving away. The towns that are prone to tornadoes are the same towns where people have spent generations raising their families.
在密西西比，就在埃斯蒂斯等路易斯维尔居民周二清理废墟的同时，重建的讨论已然浮现。没人说会搬走。易受龙卷风影响的这些城镇，也是人们祖祖辈辈安身立命之所。
“I haven’t had much time to think about it, but I guess we will rebuild on this same property,” said Zenita Allen as she stood at the edge of her destroyed home.
“我还没花太多时间来想这个，不过我想我们会在原地重建，”泽尼塔·艾伦(Zenita Allen)站在被摧毁的自家房屋近旁，这样回答。
Ms. Allen, 65, said she had been in her bedroom on Monday when she noticed that the strong wind and rain that been blowing through had stopped. Then she heard a low, rumbling noise. She ran into the kitchen to turn off the stove. Part of a tree broke through a window and landed near her. She crouched under the bar in the kitchen, while her husband took cover in a bathroom behind the house. He had to hold up one wall to prevent it from caving in on him.
65岁的艾伦称，当周一注意到肆掠了一阵的狂风暴雨停下来的时候，她正在自家卧室。然后，她听到一种低沉的隆隆声。她跑进厨房去关掉炉灶。半棵树从窗户倒进来，砸到离她不远的地方。她弓身藏到了厨房吧台的下面，而丈夫躲在了房屋后面的浴室里。他不得不撑住一堵墙，以免塌到他身上。
Still, Ms. Allen spoke of staying put as she picked through the destruction. “Now that we have gone through something like this, we’ll know what could happen,” she said. “And I know we’ll take certain things into consideration, like a storm cellar.”
尽管如此，艾伦在废墟中翻找东西的时候还是说，他们会待在原地。“既然我们经历过这种事，就知道可能发生些什么了，”她说。“我也知道了，我们肯定会考虑某些东西，比如建座防风暴地窖。”